[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business Generally. Our business is heavily dependent on our credit facility.. Our business depends substantially on our ability to obtain financing for our operations. The Trading Credit Facility (as further described and defined below) provides the Company with the liquidity to buy and sell billions of dollars of precious metals annually. The Trading Credit Facility is an uncommitted demand facility provided by a syndicate of financial institutions (the \"Trading Credit Lenders\"), and is currently scheduled to mature on March 29, 2019.  A-Mark routinely uses funds drawn under the Trading Credit Facility to purchase metals from its suppliers and for operating cash flow purposes.  Our CFC subsidiary also uses the funds drawn under the Trading Credit Facility to finance its lending activities.. Pursuant to the terms of the Trading Credit Facility, each Trading Credit Lender may, at any time in its sole discretion (subject to certain notice requirements), decline to make loans to us.  If we are unable to access funds under the Trading Credit Facility, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. 8. Table of Contents. The Trading Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and to comply with various operational and other covenants. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Trading Credit Facility that was not cured or waived pursuant to the terms of the Trading Credit Facility, the Trading Credit Lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Trading Credit Facility to be due and payable immediately.  Further, Trading Credit Lenders holding 50% or more of the indebtedness under the Trading Credit Facility may require us to repay all outstanding indebtedness under the Trading Credit Facility at any time, even if we are in compliance with the financial and other covenants under the Trading Credit Facility.. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, including the Trading Credit Facility, upon demand or acceleration, or at maturity, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments under the Trading Credit Facility. The failure of A-Mark to renew or replace the Trading Credit Facility under such circumstances would reduce the financing available to us and could limit our ability to conduct our business, including the lending activity of our CFC subsidiary.  There can be no assurance that we could procure replacement financing on commercially acceptable terms on a timely basis, or at all.  We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the Trading Credit Facility, and if we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding thereunder, the administrative agent under the Trading Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure such indebtedness.. We are subject to fluctuations in interest rates based on the variable interest terms of the Trading Credit Facility and we may not be able to pass along to our customers and borrowers some or any part of an increase in the interest that we are required to pay under the Trading Credit Facility.  Amounts under the Trading Credit Facility bear interest based on one month LIBOR plus (i)  2.50% for revolving credit line loans and (ii) 4.50% for loans extended in excess of the then-available revolving credit line. The LIBOR was approximately 2.09% as of June 30, 2018.. In addition to the Trading Credit Facility, we have incurred the Goldline Credit Facility to finance the Goldline acquisition. The obligations of the Company and Goldline pursuant to the Goldline Credit Facility are subordinated to the obligations of the Company pursuant to the Trading Credit Facility as set forth in certain subordination agreements executed in connection with the Goldline Credit Facility (the \"Goldline Subordination Agreements\"), and the Goldline Credit Facility requires us to comply with various operational and other covenants.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Goldline Credit Facility that is not cured or waived pursuant to the terms of the Goldline Credit Facility, the lenders holding a majority of the loans under the Goldline Credit Facility then outstanding could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Goldline Credit Facility to be due and payable immediately, subject to the requirements of the Goldline Subordination Agreements, as applicable.  We have pledged substantially all of the assets of Goldline as collateral under the Goldline Credit Facility, and if we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding thereunder, the lenders under the Goldline Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure such indebtedness, subject to the Goldline Subordination Agreements, as applicable.  We cannot assure you that the assets or cash flow available to Goldline would be sufficient to fully repay the borrowings under the Goldline Credit Facility, upon demand or acceleration, or at maturity, or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments under the Goldline Credit Facility.  Further, the incurrence of the Goldline Credit Facility increases the risks as a result of our leverage.. We could suffer losses with our financing operations.. We engage in a variety of financing activities with our customers:. • Receivables from our customers with whom we trade in precious metal products are effectively short-term, non-interest bearing extensions of credit that are, in certain cases, secured by the related products maintained in the Company's possession or by a letter of credit issued on behalf of the customer. On average, these receivables are outstanding for periods of between 8 and 9 days.. • The Company operates a financing business through CFC that makes secured loans at loan-to-value ratios - principal loan amount divided by the liquidation value, as conservatively estimated by management, of the collateral - of, in most cases, 50% to 85%. These loans are both variable and fixed interest rate loans, with maturities from three to twelve months.. • We make advances to our customers on unrefined metals secured by materials received from the customer. These advances are limited to a portion of the materials received.. • The Company makes unsecured, short-term, non-interest bearing advances to wholesale metals dealers and government mints.. • The Company periodically extends short-term credit through the issuance of notes receivable to approved customers at interest rates determined on a customer-by-customer basis.. Our ability to minimize losses on the credit that we extend to our customers depends on a variety of factors, including:. 9. Table of Contents. • our loan underwriting and other credit policies and controls designed to assure repayment, which may prove inadequate to prevent losses;. • our ability to sell collateral upon customer defaults for amounts sufficient to offset credit losses, which can be affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including (i) changes in economic conditions, (ii) increases in market rates of interest and (iii) changes in the condition or value of the collateral; and. • the reserves we establish for loan losses, which may prove inadequate.. Our business is dependent on a concentrated customer base.. One of A-Mark's key assets is its customer base. This customer base provides deep distribution of product and makes A-Mark a desirable trading partner for precious metals product manufacturers, including sovereign mints seeking to distribute precious metals coinage or large refiners seeking to sell large volumes of physical precious metals. Two customers represented 49.3% of A-Mark's revenues for the year ended June 30, 2018.  Those same two customers represented 38.2% of A-Mark's revenues for the year ended June 30, 2017.  If our relationship with these customers deteriorated, or if we were to lose these customers, our business would be materially adversely affected.. The loss of a government purchaser/distributorship arrangement could materially adversely affect our business.. A-Mark's business is heavily dependent on its purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental mints. Our ability to offer numismatic coins and bars to our customers on a competitive basis is based on the ability to purchase products directly from a government source. The arrangements with the governmental mints may be discontinued by them at any time. The loss of an authorized purchaser/distributor relationship, including with the U.S. Mint could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The materials held by A-Mark are subject to loss, damage, theft or restriction on access.. A-Mark has significant quantities of high-value precious metals on site, at third-party depositories and in transit. There is a risk that part or all of the gold and other precious metals held by A-Mark, whether on its own behalf or on behalf of its customers, could be lost, damaged or stolen. In addition, access to A-Mark's precious metals could be restricted by natural events (such as an earthquake) or human actions (such as a terrorist attack). Although we maintain insurance on terms and conditions that we consider appropriate, we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our precious metals inventory is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed, and recovery may be limited. Among other things, our insurance policies exclude coverage in the event of loss as a result of terrorist attacks or civil unrest.. In addition, with the establishment of our Logistics facility and the transfer of our wholesale storage operations from third party depositories to that facility, we are assuming greater potential liability for any loss suffered in connection with the stored inventory.  Among other things, our insurance, rather than the third-party depository's, is now the primary risk policy.  While we believe we have adequate insurance coverage covering these operations, in the event of any loss in excess of our coverage, we may be held liable for that excess.. Our business is subject to the risk of fraud and counterfeiting.. The precious metals (particularly bullion) business is exposed to the risk of loss as a result of \"materials fraud\" in its various forms. We seek to minimize our exposure to this type of fraud through a number of means, including third-party authentication and verification, reliance on our internal experts and the establishment of procedures designed to detect fraud. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying this type of fraud, or in obtaining redress in the event such fraud is detected.. Our business is influenced by political conditions and world events.. The precious metals business is especially subject to global political conditions and world events.  Precious metals are viewed by some as a secure financial investment in times of political upheaval or unrest, particularly in developing economies, which may drive up pricing.  The volatility of the commodity prices for precious metals is also likely to increase in politically uncertain times.  Conversely, during periods of relative international calm precious metal volatility is likely to decrease, along with demand, and the prices of precious metals may retreat.  Because our business is dependent on the volatility and pricing of precious metals, we are likely to be influenced by world events more than businesses in other economic sectors.. We have significant operations outside the United States.. We derive about 5% to 10% of our revenues from business outside the United States, including from customers in developing countries.  Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries.  These include risks of general applicability, such as the need to comply with multiple regulatory regimes;. 10. Table of Contents. trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; and fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Currently, we do not conduct substantial business with customers in developing countries.  However, if our business in these areas of the world were to increase, we would also face risks that are particular to developing countries, including the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables, protecting inventory and other assets through foreign legal systems, limitations on the repatriation of earnings, currency devaluation and manipulation of exchange rates, and high levels of inflation.. We try to manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political, economic, legal and regulatory developments in the countries outside the United States in which we operate or have customers and adjusting operations as appropriate, but there can be no assurance that the measures we adopt will be successful in protecting the Company's business interests.. We are dependent on our key management personnel and our trading experts.. Our performance is dependent on our senior management and certain other key employees. We have employment agreements with Greg Roberts, our CEO, and Thor Gjerdrum, our President, which expire on June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019, respectively. These and other employees have expertise in the trading markets, have industry-wide reputations, and perform critical functions for our business.  We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms for the renewal of the employment agreements or otherwise retain our key employees.  Also, there is significant competition for skilled precious metals traders and other industry professionals.  The loss of our current key officers and employees, without the ability to replace them, would have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are focused on growing our business, but there is no assurance that we will be successful.. We expect to grow both organically and through opportunistic acquisitions. We have devoted considerable time, resources and efforts over the past few years to our growth strategy. We may not be successful in implementing our growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our business.. Liquidity constraints may limit our ability to grow our business.. To accomplish our growth strategy, we will require adequate sources of liquidity to fund both our existing business and our expansion activity.  Currently, our main sources of liquidity are the cash that we generate from operations and our borrowing availability under the Trading Credit Facility. There can be no assurance that these sources will be adequate to support the growth that we are hoping to achieve or that additional sources of financing for this purpose, in the form of additional debt or equity financing, will be available to us, on satisfactory terms or at all.  Also, the Trading Credit Facility contains, and any future debt financing is likely to contain, various financial and other restrictive covenants. The need to comply with these covenants may limit our ability to implement our growth initiatives.. We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, but an acquisition strategy entails risks.. We expect to grow in part through acquisitions. We will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or privately held companies. However, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. Acquisitions entail certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions.. We expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase or shareholders may be diluted as we implement our growth strategy.. Our Logistics depository is subject to authorization.. Our Trading Credit Lenders have approved our Logistics facility as an authorized depository.  If that approval were to be withdrawn for any reason, we would no longer be able to keep inventory at that location, which would substantially limit our ability to conduct business from that facility.. We are subject to laws and regulations.. We are subject to various laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. Significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with. 11. Table of Contents. our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social and environmental practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. Any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. In addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal and state tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. An increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. We are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. There are various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations that affect our trading business.  For example, we are required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and a variety of anti-money laundering and know-your-customer rules in response to the USA Patriot Act.. The SEC has promulgated rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding disclosure, on an annual basis, of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies. These rules require due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the \"DRC\") or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC.. The Company has concluded that it is not currently subject to the conflict minerals rules because it is not a manufacturer of conflict minerals under the definitions set forth in the rules.  Depending on developments in the Company's business, it could become subject to the rules at some point in the future.  In that event, there will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of gold used in our products. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of gold used in our products. Also, we may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for the gold used in our products or to determine that the gold is conflict free.. CFC operates under a California Finance Lenders License issued by the California Department of Corporations.  CFC is required to submit a finance lender law annual report to the state which summarizes certain loan portfolio and financial information regarding CFC.  The Department of Corporations may audit the books and records of CFC to determine whether CFC is in compliance with the terms of its lending license.. There can be no assurance that the regulation of our trading and lending businesses will not increase or that compliance with the applicable regulations will not become more costly or require us to modify our business practices.. The recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is expected to have a significant impact on us.. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future provision for income taxes, income taxes receivable, and our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. On December 22, 2017, the comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law.  The Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. We have not completed our accounting for the estimated tax effects of the Tax Act.  We recorded a provisional net charge of $1.2 million based on reasonable estimates for those tax effects.  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the provisional net charge is subject to revisions as we continue to complete our analysis, collect, and prepare necessary data, and interpret additional guidance.. With respect to deferred tax assets (net of deferred tax liabilities) that are in existence as of the enactment date of the Tax Act (i.e., valued using a 35.0% federal tax rate),  the Company has been negatively impacted by the (1) new corporate tax rates, and (2) the effective date of the new provision, which precludes taxpayers from carrying net operating losses (NOLs) back to prior taxable years.  This is because the realization of deferred taxes during the second half of fiscal year 2018 against taxable income will be realized at a lower 28.06% blended tax rate.  Further, to the extent the realization of such deferred tax assets exceed such taxable income, resulting in an NOL, such NOL can no longer be carried back to a prior tax year and can only be carried forward to subsequent years for realization at a 21.0% tax rate.  This is also applicable to the extent realization of deferred taxes are not until the subsequent year.. 12. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. The business of buying and selling precious metals is global and highly competitive. The Company competes with precious metals trading firms and banks throughout North America, Europe and elsewhere in the world, some of whom have greater financial and other resources, and greater name recognition, than the Company.  We believe that, as a full service firm devoted exclusively to precious metals trading, we offer pricing, product availability, execution, financing alternatives and storage options that are attractive to our customers and allow us to compete effectively. We also believe that our purchaser/distributorship arrangements with various governmental mintsgive us a competitive advantage in our coin distribution business.  However, given the global reach of the precious metals trading business, the absence of intellectual property protections and the availability of numerous, evolving platforms for trading in precious metals, we cannot assure you that A-Mark will be able to continue to compete successfully or that future developments in the industry will not create additional competitive challenges.. We rely extensively on computer systems to execute trades and process transactions, and we could suffer substantial damages if the operation of these systems were interrupted.. We rely on our computer and communications hardware and software systems to execute a large volume of trading transactions each year.  It is therefore critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of these systems, and we have invested considerable resources to protect our systems from physical compromise and security breaches and to maintain backup and redundancy. Nevertheless, our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to provide quotations or trading services in the interim, and we may face costly litigation.. If our customer data were breached, we could suffer damages and loss of reputation.. By the nature of our business, we maintain significant amounts of customer data on our systems.  Moreover, certain third party providers have access to confidential data concerning the Company in the ordinary course of their business relationships with the Company. In recent years, various companies, including companies that are significantly larger than us, have reported breaches of their computer systems that have resulted in the compromise of customer data.  Any  compromise or breach of customer or company data held or maintained by either the Company or our third party providers could significantly damage our reputation and result in costs, lost trades, fines and lawsuits. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches.. Compliance with the new General Data Protection Regulation in the EU could increase our costs and expose the Company to possible sanctions for violation.. In 2016, the EU adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single European Economic Area Privacy Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which went into effect in May 2018. The EU data protection regime expands the scope of the EU data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of EU residents, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover or \20020 million, and includes new rights such as the \"portability\" of personal data. Although the GDPR will apply across the EU without a need for local implementing legislation, EU member states have the ability to interpret the GDPR opening clauses, which permit region-specific data protection legislation and have the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis.. The Company has a trading office in Vienna, Austria and also markets to customers in the EU.  Although our European operations are currently modest compared to our business in the United States, our European business could grow over time.  We have evaluated the new regulation and its requirements, and believe we are currently in compliance with the GDPR in all material respects. Going forward, however, the expansion of our European operations could require us to change our business practices and may increase the costs and complexity of compliance.  Also, a violation by the Company of the new regulation could expose us to penalties and sanctions under the regulation.. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.. We are currently implementing a new ERP system. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities over a significant period of time. If we do not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 13. Table of Contents. We have in the past engaged, and continue to engage, in transactions with Stack's Bowers, an affiliate of the Company, which could be perceived as not being made at arms-length.. Stack's-Bowers Numismatics LLC (\"Stack's Bowers\"), which is primarily engaged in the business of auctions of high-value and rare coins and in coin retailing, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SGI, our former parent.  We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in transactions with Stack's Bowers, some of which are presently on-going.  These transactions include secured lending transactions in which Stack's Bowers is the borrower, and other transactions involving the purchase and sale of rare coins. The Company and SGI have two officers and a director in common.  In addition, a majority of the board of directors of the Company has  retained an ownership interest in SGI that in the aggregate represents a controlling interest in SGI.   All transactions between the Company and Stack's Bowers are approved by our Audit Committee, and we believe that all such transactions are on terms no less favorable to the Company than would be obtained from an unaffiliated third party.  Nonetheless, these transactions could be perceived as being conflicted.. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of the Goldline Assets. We expect that our recent acquisition of the assets of Goldline, LLC will grow our business and create opportunities from cross-selling, but there is no assurance that this will be the case.. On August 28, 2017, we consummated the acquisition of the assets of Goldline, LLC, a leading direct retailer of precious metals to the investor community.  We believe that the acquisition represents an attractive opportunity to expand our suite of integrated precious metals businesses into the direct-to-client space.  We also believe that the acquisition has provided an opportunity to cross-sell our products and services to Goldline's broad, high-end customer base, for example utilization of our precious coin and metal storage services at our secured Las Vegas, Nevada facility.  Nevertheless, there is no assurance that we will be successful in conducting a retail bullion business.  For example, the success of this business will require that we continue to maintain the loyalty of a large, widely disseminated customer base, and could depend on our ability to anticipate and appropriately respond to changing attitudes of consumers to investment in precious metals.  There also can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to cross-sell other products and services to the Goldline client base.  If the Goldline business does not succeed as we anticipate, or if we are required to make significant additional investment in the Goldline business in order to maintain or expand the business, our results of operation and liquidity could be adversely affected, which could in turn cause us to be in violation of one or more covenants under the Trading Credit Facility.. The Company may incur unanticipated costs integrating the Goldline business into our operations.. In order to fully achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies of our acquisition of the assets of Goldline, LLC, we will need to continue to integrate the Goldline business, which is now being conducted through a separate subsidiary of the Company, with our existing operations.  The former executive vice president of Goldline, LLC, has assumed the role of President of our Goldline subsidiary, and we expect that with his experience and expertise, we will be able to align the Goldline business with our existing operations with a minimum amount of delay and disruption.  We cannot assure you that this will be the case, however, and the integration process may take longer, may be more costly, and may require more time and attention of senior management than we anticipate.  If that were the case, the benefits that we hope to achieve from the acquisition may not be realized in the time frame we anticipate or at all.. Goldline's prior marketing practices could generate adverse publicity for the Company.. In 2011, Goldline and a number of its executives were the subject to a criminal complaint in Santa Monica, California regarding the company's marketing practices and in February 2012, Goldline settled the action against it by agreeing to refund $4.5 million to its customers. Key members of management were replaced at about the time of the settlement, and, as required by the terms of a related injunction, Goldline eliminated the offending aspects of its sales operations that were the subject of the legal action against it. The injunction expired in early 2017. We believe that in the five years since the criminal action was settled, Goldline has reestablished its reputation as a trusted, premier retailer of precious metals.  Nonetheless, it is possible that Goldline's past businesses issues may continue to have reputational consequences for the Goldline business, and following our acquisition of Goldline, could generate adverse publicity for the Company.. 14. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Commodities. A-Mark's business is heavily influenced by volatility in commodities prices.. A primary driver of A-Mark's profitability is volatility in commodities prices, which leads to wider bid and ask spreads. Among the factors that can impact the price of precious metals are supply and demand of precious metals; political, economic, and global financial events; movement of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies; and the activity of large speculators such as hedge funds. If commodity prices were to stagnate, there would likely be a reduction in trading activity, resulting in less demand for the services A-Mark provides, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations.. This volatility may drive fluctuation of our revenues, as a consequence of which our results for any one period may not be indicative of the results to be expected for any other period. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Our business is exposed to commodity price risks, and our hedging activity to protect our inventory is subject to risks of default by our counterparties.. A-Mark's precious metals inventories are subject to market value changes created by change in the underlying commodity price, as well as supply and demand of the individual products the Company trades. In addition, open sale and purchase commitments are subject to changes in value between the date the purchase or sale is fixed (the trade date) and the date metal is delivered or received (the settlement date). A-Mark seeks to minimize the effect of price changes of the underlying commodity through the use of financial derivative instruments, such as forward and futures contracts. A-Mark's policy is to remain substantially hedged as to its inventory position and its individual sale and purchase commitments. A-Mark's management monitors its hedged exposure daily. However, there can be no assurance that these hedging activities will be adequate to protect the Company against commodity price risks associated with A-Mark's business activities.. Furthermore, even if we are fully hedged as to any given position, there is the risk of default by our counterparties to the hedge. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Increased commodity pricing could limit the inventory that we are able to carry.. We maintain a large and varied inventory of precious metal products, including bullion and coins, in order to support our trading activities and provide our customers with superior service.  The amount of inventory that we are able to carry is constrained by the borrowing limitations and working capital covenants under the Trading Credit Facility. If commodity prices were to rise substantially, and we were unable to modify the terms of the Trading Credit Facility to compensate for the increase, the quantity of product that we could finance, and hence maintain in our inventory, would fall.  This would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act could adversely impact our use of derivative instruments to hedge precious metal prices and may have other adverse effects on our business.. On July 21, 2010, former President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation, including with respect to derivative contracts on commodities.  This legislation and any implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank legislation and regulations, we would be exposed to inventory and other risks associated with fluctuations in commodity prices.  Also, if the Dodd-Frank legislation and regulations reduces volatility in commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected.. We rely on the efficient functioning of commodity exchanges around the world, and disruptions on these exchanges could adversely affect our business.. The Company buys and sells precious metals contracts on commodity exchanges around the world, both in support of its customer operations and to hedge its inventory and transactional exposure against fluctuations in commodity prices.  The Company's ability to engage in these activities would be compromised if the exchanges on which the Company trades or any of their clearinghouses were to discontinue operations or to experience disruptions in trading, due to computer problems, unsettled markets or other factors. The Company may also experience risk of loss if futures commission merchants or commodity brokers with whom the Company deals were to become insolvent or bankrupt.. 15. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Public company costs have increased our expenses and administrative burden, in particular in order to maintain our Company's compliance with certain provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These increased costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including financial reporting costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002).. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and related regulations implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ have created uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Applicable laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased selling, general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We are required to implement standalone policies and procedures to comply with the requirements of Section 404. During the course of our testing of our internal controls and procedures, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to comply with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are also important to the operation of our business. We also expect that these regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, then investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if we do not maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial information on a timely basis, which could harm the trading price of our common stock, impair our ability to raise additional capital, or jeopardize our continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or any other stock exchange on which common stock may be listed.. We recently suspended our dividend payments and may not be able to continue to pay dividends.. Effective March 2, 2015, the Board of Directors approved a cash dividend policy calling for the payment of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share. The policy was amended on February 2, 2016 to provide for a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per common share, and then on January 26, 2017 to provide for a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per common share.. The Board of Directors determined to suspend the Company's quarterly dividend for both the third and fourth fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, in order to increase its financial flexibility and strengthen its balance sheet. Going forward, the Board of Directors will re-assess its capital resources and may or may not determine to reinstate the dividend based on that assessment.. 16. Table of Contents. The declaration of cash dividends in the future is subject to the determination each quarter by the Board of Directors, based on a number of factors, including the Company's financial performance, available cash resources, cash requirements, bank covenants, and alternative uses of cash that the Board of Directors may conclude would represent an opportunity to generate a greater return on investment for the Company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will resume paying dividends on a regular basis.  If the Board of Directors were to determine not to pay dividends in the future, shareholders would not receive any further return on an investment in our capital stock in the form of dividends, and may obtain an economic benefit from the common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock.. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain certain anti-takeover provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company without negotiating with our board of directors. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company's securities. Certain of such provisions allow the Company to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock, impose various procedural and other requirements which could make it more difficult for Shareholders to effect certain corporate actions and set forth rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings.. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. However, these provisions apply even if an acquisition offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our Shareholders. Accordingly, in the event that our board determines that a potential business combination transaction is not in the best interests of our Company and our Shareholders, but certain shareholders believe that such a transaction would be beneficial to the Company and its Shareholders, such Shareholders may elect to sell their shares in the Company and the trading price of our common stock could decrease.. Your percentage ownership in the Company could be diluted in the future.. Your percentage ownership in A-Mark potentially could be diluted in the future because of additional equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees. We have established an equity incentive plan that provides for the grant of common stock-based equity awards to our directors, officers and other employees. In addition, we may issue equity in order to raise capital or in connection with future acquisitions and strategic investments, which could dilute your percentage ownership.. Our board and management beneficially own a sizeable percentage of our common stock and therefore have the ability to exert substantial influence as shareholders.. Members of our board and management beneficially own approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. Acting together in their capacity as shareholders, the board members and management could exert substantial influence over matters on which a shareholder vote is required, such as the approval of business combination transactions.  Also because of the size of their beneficial ownership, the board members and management may be in a position effectively to determine the outcome of the election of directors and the vote on shareholder proposals. The concentration of beneficial ownership in the hands of our board and management may therefore limit the ability of our public shareholders to influence the affairs of the Company.. If the Company's spinoff from SGI is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. In connection with the spinoff, SGI received the written opinion of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP (\"Kramer Levin\") to the effect that the spinoff qualified as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, and that for U.S. federal income tax purposes (i) no gain or loss was recognized by SGI upon the distribution of our common stock in the spinoff, and (ii) no gain or loss was recognized by, and no amount was included in the income of, holders of SGI common stock upon the receipt of shares of our common stock in the spinoff. The opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and there is no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. In addition, the opinion of Kramer Levin relied on certain representations and covenants delivered by SGI and us.  If, notwithstanding the conclusions included in the opinion, it is ultimately determined that the distribution does not qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each SGI shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income tax and that received shares of our common stock in the distribution could be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares. In addition, if the distribution were not to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then SGI would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to SGI shareholders on the date of the distribution over SGI's tax basis in such shares. Also, we could have an indemnification obligation to SGI related to its tax liability.. 17. Table of Contents"
