[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our actual operating results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, those described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our revenue, profitability and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to operate certain key treatment facilities, our corporate office or our laboratory facilities.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from four treatment facilities located in California, Florida, Nevada and Texas. These treatment facilities accounted for 51% of our total revenue in 2017. It is likely that a small number of facilities will continue to contribute a significant portion of our total revenue in any given year for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we have a centralized corporate office that houses our accounting, billing and collections, information technology, and call center departments, centralized marketing offices and two high complexity laboratory facilities that conduct quantitative drug testing and other laboratory services. If any event occurs that results in a complete or partial shutdown of any of these facilities, our centralized corporate office, our centralized marketing offices or two laboratory facilities, including, without limitation, any material changes in legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes or floods or prolonged airline disruptions due to a natural disaster or for any reason, such event could lead to decreased revenue and/or higher operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows.. We rely on our multi-faceted sales and marketing program to continuously attract and enroll clients in our network of facilities. Any disruption in our national sales and marketing program could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe our national sales and marketing program provides us with a competitive advantage compared to treatment facilities that primarily target local geographic areas and use fewer marketing channels to attract clients. If any disruption occurs in our national sales and marketing program for any reason, or if we are unable to effectively attract and enroll new clients to our network of facilities, our ability to maintain census could be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our ability to grow or even to maintain our existing level of business depends significantly on our ability to establish and maintain close working and referral relationships with hospitals, other treatment facilities, employers, alumni, employee assistance programs and other referral sources. We have no binding commitments with any of these referral sources. We may not be able to maintain our existing referral relationships or develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Negative changes to our existing referral relationships may cause the number of people to whom we provide services to decline, which may adversely affect our revenue. Also, if we fail to develop new referral relationships, our growth may be restrained.. Third-party payors could reduce their reimbursement rates or otherwise restrain our ability to obtain or provide services to clients, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operation. This risk is heightened because we are generally an \"out-of-network\" provider.. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors pay for the services that we provide to many of our clients. For 2017, approximately 92.3% of our revenue was reimbursable by third-party payors, including amounts paid by such payors to clients, with the remaining portion payable directly by our clients. If any of these third-party payors reduce their reimbursement rates or elect not to cover some or all of our services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. 14. In addition to limits on the amounts payors will pay for the services we provide to their members, controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and the length of stay for clients, including preadmission authorizations and utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a client by third-party payors. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill clients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these controls and changes could have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the rates paid or the scope of substance use treatment services covered by third-party commercial payors are reduced, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Third-party payors often use plan structures, such as narrow networks or tiered networks, to encourage or require clients to use in-network providers. In-network providers typically provide services through third-party payors for a negotiated lower rate or other less favorable terms. Third-party payors generally attempt to limit use of out-of-network providers by requiring clients to pay higher copayment and/or deductible amounts for out-of-network care. Additionally, third-party payors have become increasingly aggressive in attempting to minimize the use of out-of-network providers by disregarding the assignment of payment from clients to out-of-network providers (i.e., sending payments directly to clients instead of to out-of-network providers), capping out-of-network benefits payable to clients, waiving out-of-pocket payment amounts and initiating litigation against out-of-network providers for interference with contractual relationships, insurance fraud and violation of state licensing and consumer protection laws. The majority of third-party payors consider certain of our facilities to be \"out-of-network\" providers. If third-party payors impose further restrictions on out-of-network providers, our revenue could be threatened, forcing our facilities to participate with third-party payors and accept lower reimbursement rates compared to our historic reimbursement rates.. Third-party payors also are entering into sole source contracts with some healthcare providers, which could effectively limit our pool of potential clients. Moreover, third-party payors are beginning to carve out specific services, including substance abuse treatment and behavioral health services, and establish small, specialized networks of providers for such services at fixed reimbursement rates. Continued growth in the use of carve-out arrangements could materially adversely affect our business to the extent we are not selected to participate in such smaller specialized networks or if the reimbursement rate is not adequate to cover the cost of providing the service.. If we overestimate the reimbursement amounts that payors will pay us for out-of-network services performed, it would increase our revenue adjustments, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows and lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter that may make it difficult to project long-term performance.. For out-of-network services, we recognize revenue from commercial payors at the time services are provided based on our estimate of the amount that payors will pay us for the services performed. We estimate the net realizable value of revenue by adjusting gross client charges using our expected realization and applying this discount to gross client charges. A significant or sustained decrease in our collection rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve historical collection rates in future reporting periods.. Estimates of net realizable value are subject to significant judgment and approximation by management. It is possible that actual results could differ from the historical estimates management has used to help determine the net realizable value of revenue. If our actual collections either exceed or are less than the net realizable value estimates, we will record a revenue adjustment, either positive or negative, for the difference between our estimate of the receivable and the amount actually collected in the reporting period in which the collection occurred. A significant negative revenue adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows in the reporting period in which such adjustment is recorded. In addition, if we record a significant revenue adjustment, either positive or negative, in any given reporting period, it may lead to significant changes in our results from operations from quarter to quarter, which may limit our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our future performance.. Certain third-party payors account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the reduction of reimbursement rates or coverage of services by any such payor could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and cash flows.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 11% of our revenue came from Anthem Blue-Cross Blue-Shield of Nevada, 11% came from Blue-Cross Blue-Shield of Texas and 10% came from Blue-Cross Blue-Shield of Florida. No other payor accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately 11% of our revenue came from Anthem Blue-Cross Blue-Shield of Florida, 10% came from Blue-Cross Blue-Shield of Texas and 10% came from Aetna. No other payor accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. As reflected for the periods above, these more significant payors can also change from year to year. If any of these or other third-party payors reduce their reimbursement rates for the services we provide or otherwise implement measures, such as specialized networks, that reduce the payments we receive, our revenue, profitability and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. 15. A deterioration in the collectability of the accounts receivables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Collection of receivables from third-party payors and clients is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks are (i) the risk of overestimating our net revenue at the time of billing, which may result in us receiving less than the recorded receivable, (ii) the risk of non-payment as a result of commercial insurance companies denying claims, (iii) in certain states, the risk that clients will fail to remit insurance payments to us when the commercial insurance company pays out-of-network claims directly to the client and (iv) resource and capacity constraints that may prevent us from handling the volume of billing and collection issues in a timely manner. Additionally, our ability to hire and retain experienced personnel affects our ability to bill and collect accounts in a timely manner. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts based on the aging of the receivables and taking into consideration historical collection experience by facility, services provided, payor source and historical reimbursement rate, current economic trends and percentages applied to the accounts receivable aging categories. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for doubtful accounts increased to approximately 38% of our accounts receivable balance as of such date from 24% as of December 31, 2016, with two commercial payors each representing in excess of 10% of the accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2017. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the client accounts and adjust our allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business operations, payor mix or economic conditions, including changes resulting from legislation or other health reform efforts, including efforts, (including to repeal or significantly change the Affordable Care Act), could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, increased client concentration in states that permit commercial insurance companies to pay out-of-network claims directly to the client instead of the provider, such as California and Nevada, could adversely affect our collection of receivables. Increases in our provision for doubtful accounts or unexpected changes in reimbursement rates by third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on our information systems and failure to effectively integrate, manage and keep our information systems secure could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, admitting clients to our facilities, monitoring census and utilization, processing and collecting claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. Our facilities also depend upon our information systems for electronic medical records, accounting, billing, collections, risk management, payroll and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to process transactions and produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected.. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems' capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, working capital disruptions and increases in administrative expenses.. In addition, we could be subject to cybersecurity risks such as a cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology security systems and other security incidents that result in security breaches, including the theft, loss or misappropriation of individually identifiable health information subject to HIPAA and other privacy and security laws, proprietary business information or other confidential or personal data. Such an incident could disrupt our information technology business systems, impede clinical operations, cause us to incur significant investigation and remediation expenses, and subject us to litigation, government inquiries, penalties and reputational damages. Information security and the continued development, maintenance and enhancement of our safeguards to protect our systems, data, software and networks are a priority for us. As security threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify and enhance our safeguards and investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Cyber-attacks may also impede our ability to exercise sufficient disclosure controls. If we are subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. A failure to implement our disaster recovery plans or ultimately restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential health information that we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss.. 16. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to a variety of operational, integration and financial risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. An element of our business strategy is to grow by acquiring other companies and assets in the mental health and substance abuse treatment industry. We evaluate potential acquisition opportunities consistent with the normal course of our business. Our ability to complete acquisitions is subject to a number of risks and variables, including our ability to negotiate mutually agreeable terms with the counterparties, our ability to finance the purchase price and our ability to obtain any licenses or other approvals required to operate the assets to be acquired. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations, and may also require a significant amount of management resources. In addition, rapid growth through acquisitions exposes us to a variety of operational and financial risks. We summarize the most significant of these risks below.. Integration risks. We must integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations. This process involves various components of our business and the businesses we have acquired, including the following:. •  physicians and employees who are not familiar with our operations;. •  clients who may elect to switch to another substance abuse treatment provider;. •  assignment or termination of material contracts, including commercial payor agreements;. •  regulatory compliance programs and state and federal licensing requirements; and. •  disparate operating, information and record keeping systems and technology platforms.. The integration of acquisitions with our operations could be expensive, require significant attention from management, may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects and may impose challenges on the combined business including, without limitation, consistencies in business standards, procedures, policies, business cultures, internal controls and compliance. In addition, certain acquisitions require a capital outlay, and the return we achieve on such invested capital may be less than the return that we could achieve on other projects or investments.. Benefits may not materialize. When evaluating potential acquisition targets, we identify potential synergies and cost savings that we expect to realize upon the successful completion of the acquisition and the integration of the related operations. We may, however, be unable to achieve or may otherwise never realize the expected benefits. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from potential cost savings and revenue improvement opportunities is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Such uncertainties may include changes to regulations impacting the substance abuse treatment and behavioral healthcare industries, reductions in reimbursement rates from third-party payors, operating difficulties, difficulties obtaining required licenses and permits, client preferences, changes in competition and general economic or industry conditions. If we do not achieve our expected results, it may adversely impact our results of operations.. Assumptions of unknown liabilities. Businesses that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, without limitation, liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such facilities for at least a portion of these matters, we may experience difficulty enforcing those indemnification obligations, or we may incur material liabilities in excess of any indemnification for the past activities of acquired facilities. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility's reputation could negatively impact our business.. Completing Acquisitions. Suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. Further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for an acquired facility, the acquired facility's results of operations, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on reimbursement rate increases. In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur additional debt or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial results, result in dilution to our existing stockholders, result in increased fixed obligations or impede our ability to manage our operations.. Managing growth. Some of the facilities we have acquired or may acquire in the future had or may have significantly lower operating margins than the facilities we operated prior to the time of our acquisition thereof or had or may have operating losses prior to such acquisition. If we fail to improve the operating margins of the facilities we acquire, operate such facilities profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired facilities, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. 17. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations, react to changes in the economy or our industry and to raise additional capital to fund our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt of $207.4 million outstanding. We have historically relied on debt financing to partially fund our acquisitions, de novo projects and facility expansions, and we expect such debt financing needs to continue. A summary of the material terms of our indebtedness can be found in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\" Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could:. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such indebtedness;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business;. •  limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and. •  place us at a potential competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our credit facility, and we may be unable to comply with all covenants in the future.. On June 30, 2017, the Company entered into a senior secured credit agreement with Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent and collateral agent and the lenders party thereto (the \"2017 Credit Facility\"). Our 2017 Credit Facility imposes restrictions that could impede our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to enter into certain corporate transactions, as well as increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:. •  incur or guarantee additional debt;. •  pay dividends on our capital stock;. •  redeem, repurchase, retire or otherwise acquire any of our capital stock;. •  enter into leases, including those in connection with sale-leaseback transactions;. •  make certain payments or investments;. •  create liens on our assets;. •  make any substantial change in the nature of our business as it is currently conducted; and. •  merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, our 2017 Credit Facility requires us to meet a senior leverage ratio financial covenant and may preclude additional borrowings. This restriction may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our 2017 Credit Facility also contains cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions that would apply to other material indebtedness we may have. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants in future periods will largely depend on our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be granted any waivers or amendments to the 2017 Credit Facility if for any reason we are unable to comply with the terms of the 2017 Credit Facility in the future. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the 2017 Credit Facility, which could result in the acceleration of our debt. In the event of an acceleration of our debt, we could be forced to apply all available cash flows to repay such debt and could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 18. We will need additional financing to execute our long-term business plan and fund operations, at which time additional financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. To fund our acquisition and development strategies, we may consider raising additional funds through various financing sources, including the sale of our common or preferred stock and the procurement of commercial debt financing. However, there can be no assurance that such funds will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand or continue our business as desired and operating results may be adversely affected. Any debt financing will increase expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results and may involve restrictions limiting our operating flexibility. If we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced, and our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share.. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in our industry, which could impact the availability or cost of future financings. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenue from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, we may be required to decrease the pace of, or eliminate, our acquisition strategy and potentially reduce or even cease operations.. Our business may face significant risks with respect to future de novo expansion, including the time and costs of identifying new geographic markets, the ability to obtain necessary licensure and other zoning or regulatory approvals and significant start-up costs including advertising, marketing and the costs of providing equipment, furnishings, supplies and other capital resources.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop new substance abuse treatment facilities in existing and new markets, either by building a new facility or by acquiring an existing facility with an alternative use and repurposing it as a substance abuse treatment facility. Such de novo expansion involves significant risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  the time and costs associated with identifying locations in suitable geographic markets, which may divert management attention from existing operations;. •  the possibility of changes to comprehensive zoning plans or zoning regulations that imposes additional restrictions on use or requirements, which could impact our expansion into otherwise suitable geographic markets;. •  the need for significant advertising and marketing expenditures to attract clients;. •  our ability to provide each de novo facility with the appropriate equipment, furnishings, materials, supplies and other capital resources;. •  our ability to obtain licensure and accreditation, establish relationships with healthcare providers in the community and delays or difficulty in installing our operating and information systems;. •  the costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local physicians, management and staff and opening new facilities, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient revenue to support the costs of the expansion; and. •  our ability to finance de novo expansion and possible dilution to our existing stockholders if our common stock is used as consideration.. As a result of these and other risks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop de novo treatment facilities or that a de novo treatment facility will become profitable and such expansion could expose us to liabilities or loss.. Our ability to maintain census is dependent on a number of factors outside of our control, and if we are unable to maintain census, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our revenue is directly impacted by our ability to maintain census. These metrics are dependent on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including our referral relationships, average length of stay of our clients, the extent to which third-party payors require preadmission authorization or utilization review controls, competition in the industry and the decisions of our clients to seek and commit to treatment. A significant decrease in census could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flows due to fewer or lower reimbursements received and the additional resources required to collect accounts receivable and to maintain our existing level of business.. Given the client-driven nature of the substance abuse treatment sector, our business is dependent on clients seeking and committing to treatment. Although increased awareness and de-stigmatization of substance abuse treatment in recent years has resulted in more people seeking treatment, the decision of each client to seek treatment is ultimately discretionary. In addition, even after the initial decision to seek treatment, our clients may decide at any time to discontinue treatment and leave our facilities against the advice of our physicians and other treatment professionals. For this reason, among others, average length of stay can vary among periods without correlating to the overall operating performance of our business. If clients or potential clients decide not to seek treatment or discontinue treatment early, census could decrease and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 19. As a provider of treatment services, we are subject to governmental investigations and potential claims and legal actions by clients, employees and others, which may increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition results of operations and reputation.. Given the addiction and mental health issues of clients and the nature of the services provided, the substance abuse treatment industry is heavily regulated by governmental agencies and involves significant risk of liability. We and others in our industry are exposed to the risk of governmental investigations and lawsuits or other claims against us and our physicians and other professionals arising out of our day to day business operations, including, without limitation, client treatment at our facilities and relationships with healthcare providers that may refer clients to us. Addressing any investigation, lawsuit or other claim may distract management and divert resources, even if we ultimately prevail. Regardless of the outcome of any such investigation, lawsuit or claim, the publicity and potential risks associated with the investigation, lawsuit or claim could harm our reputation or the reputation of our management and negatively impact the perception of the Company by clients, investors or others and could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Fines, restrictions, penalties and damages imposed as a result of an investigation or a successful lawsuit or claim that is not covered by, or is in excess of, our insurance coverage may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our insurance premiums have increased year over year, and insurance coverage may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future, especially given the significant increase in insurance premiums generally experienced in the healthcare industry.. We are also subject to potential medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large claims as well as significant defense costs. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. All professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. We believe that, based on our past experience, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operation of our facilities. While we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. If such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry where competition may lead to declines in client volumes and an increase in labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The substance abuse treatment industry is highly competitive, and competition among substance abuse treatment providers (including behavioral healthcare facilities) for clients has intensified in recent years. There are behavioral healthcare facilities that provide substance abuse and other mental health treatment services comparable to at least some of the services offered by our facilities in each of the geographical areas in which we operate. Some of our competitors are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may have certain financial advantages not available to us, including endowments, charitable contributions, tax-exempt financing and exemptions from sales, property and income taxes. If our competitors are better able to attract clients, expand services or obtain favorable participation agreements with third-party payors, we may experience a decline in client volume, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations depend on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management team, physicians and medical support personnel, including our nurses, mental health technicians, therapists and counselors. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management, physicians, nurses and other support personnel responsible for the daily operations of our facilities.. Increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. A labor union, HPAE, represents our employees at Sunrise House. As a result, with respect to our Sunrise House facilities, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. Although we are not aware of any union organizing activity at any of our other facilities, we are unable to predict whether any such activity will take place in the future.. We depend heavily on key executives and other key management personnel, and the departure of one or more of our key executives or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The expertise and efforts of our key executives, including our chief executive officer, and other management personnel are critical to the success of our business. We do not currently have employment agreements or non-compete covenants with any of our key executives. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities. Furthermore, if one or more of our key executives were to terminate employment with us and engage in a competing business, we would be subject to increased competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and any other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain a trademark portfolio that we consider to be of significant importance to our business, and we may acquire additional trademarks or other proprietary rights in acquisitions that we pursue as part of our growth strategy. If the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequate to prevent imitation of our services by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our services as an alleged violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate or enter into litigation in the future to enforce our trademark rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal proceedings could result in an adverse determination that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of New York Stock Exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we report a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur incremental costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including increased auditing and legal fees.. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations impacting our industry, we could suffer penalties, be the subject of federal and state investigations or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which may reduce our revenue, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Healthcare service providers are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things:. •  licensure, certification and accreditation of substance use treatment services;. •  licensure, CLIA certification and accreditation of laboratory services;. •  handling, administration and distribution of controlled substances;. •  necessity and adequacy of care and quality of services;. •  licensure, certification and qualifications of professional and support personnel;. •  referrals of clients and permissible relationships with physicians and other referral sources;. •  claim submission and collections, including penalties for the submission of, or causing the submission of, false, fraudulent or misleading claims and the failure to repay overpayments in a timely manner;. •  consumer protection issues and billing and collection of client-owed accounts issues;. •  communications with clients and consumers;. •  privacy and security of health-related information, client personal information and medical records;. •  physical plant planning, construction of new facilities and expansion of existing facilities;. •  activities regarding competitors;. •  FDA laws and regulations related to drugs and medical devices;. •  operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely;. •  health and safety of employees;. •  handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens and infectious and hazardous waste; and. •  corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting, self-referral and kickback prohibitions.. 21. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, loss of license or certification or require us to change our operations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Both federal and state government agencies as well as commercial payors have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations.. We endeavor to comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements, however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to adhere to all of the complex government regulations that apply to our business. We seek to structure all of our relationships with physicians to comply with applicable anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws, fee-splitting laws and state corporate practice of medicine prohibitions. We monitor these laws and their implementing regulations and implement changes as necessary. However, the laws and regulations in these areas are complex and often subject to varying interpretations. For example, if an enforcement agency were to challenge the compensation paid under our contracts with professional physician groups, we could be required to change our practices, face criminal or civil penalties, pay substantial fines or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result.. We may be required to spend substantial amounts to comply with legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to privacy and security of client health information.. There are currently numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing client privacy and security concerns. In particular, the Part 2 Regulations restrict the disclosure, and regulate the security, of client identifiable information related to substance abuse. These requirements apply to any of our facilities that receive federal assistance, which is interpreted broadly to include facilities licensed, certified or registered by a federal agency. In addition, the federal privacy and security regulations issued under HIPAA require our facilities to comply with extensive requirements on the use and disclosure of protected health information and to implement and maintain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of such information. Additional security requirements apply to electronic protected health information. These regulations also provide clients with substantive rights with respect to their health information and impose substantial administrative obligations on our facilities, including the requirement to enter into written agreements with contractors, known as business associates, to whom our programs disclose protected health information. We may be subject to penalties as a result of a business associate violating HIPAA, if the business associate is found to be our agent. Covered entities must notify individuals, HHS and, in some cases, the media of breaches involving unsecured protected health information. HHS and state attorneys general are authorized to enforce these regulations. Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations may result in significant civil and criminal penalties, and data breaches and other HIPAA violations may give rise to class action lawsuits by affected clients under state law.. Our programs remain subject to any privacy-related federal or state laws that are more restrictive than the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. These laws vary by state and may impose additional requirements and penalties. For example, some states impose strict restrictions on the use and disclosure of health information pertaining to mental health or substance abuse. Further, most states have enacted laws and regulations that require us to notify affected individuals in the event of a data breach involving individually identifiable information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission may use its consumer protection authority to initiate enforcement actions in response to data breaches or other privacy or security lapses.. As public attention is drawn to issues related to the privacy and security of medical and other personal information, federal and state authorities may increase enforcement efforts, seek to impose harsher penalties as well as revise and expand laws or enact new laws concerning these topics. Compliance with current as well as any newly established provisions or interpretations of existing requirements will require us to expend significant resources. Increased focus on privacy and security issues by enforcement authorities may increase the overall risk that our substance abuse treatment facilities may be found lacking under federal and state privacy and security laws and regulations.. 22. Our treatment facilities operate in an environment of increasing state and federal enforcement activity and private litigation targeted at healthcare providers.. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated their civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies and various segments of the healthcare industry. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including relationships with physicians, billing practices and use of controlled substances. The Affordable Care Act included an additional $350 million of federal funding over ten years to fight healthcare fraud, waste and abuse, including $10 million for each of federal fiscal years 2018 through 2020. From time to time, the HHS Office of Inspector General and the Department of Justice have established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Although we do not currently bill Medicare or Medicaid for substance use treatment services, there is a risk that specific investigation initiatives could be expanded to include our treatment facilities or laboratory services. In addition, increased government enforcement activities, even if not directed towards our treatment facilities or laboratories, also increase the risk that our facilities, physicians and other clinicians furnishing services in our facilities, or our executives and directors, could be named as defendants in private litigation such as state or federal false claims act cases or consumer protection cases, or could become the subject of complaints at the various state and federal agencies that have jurisdiction over our operations. Any governmental investigations, private litigation or other legal proceedings involving any of our facilities or laboratories, our executives or our directors, even if we ultimately prevail, could result in significant expense, adversely affect our reputation or profitability and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may be required to make changes in our laboratory or other substance use treatment services as a result of an adverse determination in any governmental enforcement action, private litigation or other legal proceeding, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Changes to federal, state and local regulations, as well as different or new interpretations of existing regulations, could adversely affect our operations and profitability.. Because our treatment programs and operations are regulated at federal, state and local levels, we could be affected by regulatory changes in different regional markets. Increases in the costs of regulatory compliance and the risks of noncompliance may increase our operating costs, and we may not be able to recover these increased costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. Many of the current laws and regulations are relatively new. Thus, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. Evolving interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our treatment facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. A determination that we have violated these laws, or a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could adversely affect our business, operating results and overall reputation in the marketplace.. In addition, federal, state and local regulations may be enacted that impose additional requirements on our facilities. Adoption of legislation or the creation of new regulations affecting our facilities could increase our operating costs, restrain our growth or limit us from taking advantage of opportunities presented and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in existing comprehensive zoning plans or zoning regulations that impose additional restrictions on the use of, or requirements applicable to, our facilities may affect our ability to operate our existing facilities or acquire new facilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.. We are subject to uncertainties regarding the direction and impact of healthcare reform efforts, particularly efforts to repeal or significantly modify the Affordable Care Act.. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, regulatory, scientific and technological changes, which have resulted and may continue to result in initiatives intended to reform the industry. The most prominent of recent efforts, the Affordable Care Act, as currently structured, provides for increased access to coverage for healthcare and seeks to reduce healthcare-related expenses. Among other mandates, it requires all new small group and individual market health plans to cover ten essential health benefit categories, which currently include substance abuse addiction and mental health disorder services. However, efforts by the presidential administration and certain members of Congress to repeal or make fundamental changes to the Affordable Care Act, its implementation and/or its interpretation have cast significant uncertainty on the future of the law. For example, in 2017, Congress eliminated the penalties associated with the individual mandate, effective January 2019, which may affect rates of insurance coverage. We are unable to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act and related regulations or the impact of its repeal or modification on our operations in light of the uncertainty regarding whether or how the law will be changed, what alternative reforms, if any, may be enacted or what other actions may be taken. Any government efforts related to health reform may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Moreover, the general uncertainty of health reform efforts, particularly if Congress elects to repeal provisions of the Affordable Care Act but delays the implementation of repeal or fails to enact replacement provisions at the time of repeal, may negatively impact our payment sources or demand for our services.. 23. The expansion of health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act has been beneficial to the substance abuse treatment industry. This is due, in part, to higher demand for treatment services, which resulted from the requirement that small group and individual market plans comply with the requirements of the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, which previously applied only to group health plans and group insurers. The 21st Century Cures Act requires development of an action plan for enhanced enforcement of mental health parity requirements and additional guidance for health plans regarding compliance with parity laws. Increased demand for treatment services may bring new competitors to the market, some of which may be better capitalized and have greater market penetration than we do. In addition, we expect increased demand for substance use treatment services to increase the demand for case managers, therapists, medical technicians and others with clinical expertise in substance abuse treatment, which may make it more difficult to adequately staff our substance abuse treatment facilities and could significantly increase our costs in delivering treatment, which may adversely affect both our operations and profitability.. One of the many impacts of the Affordable Care Act and subsequent legislation has been a dramatic increase in payment reform efforts by federal and state government payors as well as commercial payors. These efforts take many forms, including the growth of accountable care organizations, pay-for-performance bonus arrangements, partial capitation arrangements and the bundling of services into a single payment. One result of these efforts is that more risk of the overall cost of care is being transferred to providers. As institutional providers and their affiliated physicians assume more risk for the cost of care, we expect more services to be furnished within provider networks that are formed for these types of payment arrangements. Our ability to compete and to retain our traditional sources of clients may be adversely affected by our exclusion from such networks or our inability to be included in such networks.. Change of ownership or change of control requirements imposed by state and federal licensure and certification agencies as well as third-party payors may limit our ability to timely realize opportunities, adversely affect our licenses and certifications, interrupt our cash flows and adversely affect our profitability.. State licensure laws and many federal healthcare programs (where applicable) impose a number of obligations on healthcare providers undergoing a change of ownership or change of control transaction. These requirements may require new license applications as well as notices given a fixed number of days prior to the closing of affected transactions. These provisions require us to be proactive when considering both internal restructuring and acquisitions of third-party targets. Failure to provide such notices or to submit required paperwork can adversely affect licensure on a going forward basis, can subject the parties to penalties and can adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities.. Many third-party payor agreements, including government payor programs, also have change of ownership or change of control provisions. Such provisions generally include a prior notice provision as well as require the consent of the payor in order to continue the terms of the payor agreement. Abiding by the terms of such provisions may reopen pricing negotiations with third-party payors where the provider currently has favorable reimbursement terms as compared to the market. Failure to comply with the terms of such provisions can result in a breach of the underlying third-party payor agreement. Currently, we have few third-party payor agreements; however, as substance abuse treatment coverage and payment reform initiatives continue to expand, these types of provisions could have a significant impact on our ability to realize opportunities and could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability.. We could face risks associated with, or arising out of, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that:. •  regulate certain activities and operations that may have environmental or health and safety effects, such as the generation, handling and disposal of medical and pharmaceutical wastes;. •  impose liability for costs of cleaning up, and damages to natural resources from, past spills, waste disposals on and off-site and other releases of hazardous materials or regulated substances; and. •  regulate workplace safety.. Compliance with these laws and regulations could increase our costs of operation. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We could be responsible for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at currently or formerly operated or leased sites, as well as for associated liabilities, including liabilities for natural resource damages, third-party property damage or personal injury resulting from lawsuits that could be brought by the government or private litigants relating to our operations, the operations of our facilities or the land on which our facilities are located. We may be subject to these liabilities regardless of whether we lease or own the facility, and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant, or by a third-party or a neighboring facility whose operations may have affected such facility or land, because liability for contamination under certain environmental laws can be imposed on current or past owners or operators of a site without regard to fault. We cannot assure you that environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing or future sites or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. 24. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our facilities.. The construction of new healthcare facilities, the expansion, transfer or change of ownership of existing facilities and the addition of new beds, services or equipment may be subject to state laws that require a determination of public need and prior approval by state regulatory agencies under CON laws or other healthcare planning initiatives. Review of CONs and similar proposals may be lengthy and may require public hearings. States in which we now or may in the future operate may require CONs under certain circumstances not currently applicable to us or may impose standards and other health planning requirements upon us. Violation of these state laws and our failure to obtain any necessary state approval could:. •  result in our inability to acquire a targeted facility, complete a desired expansion or make a desired replacement; or. •  result in the revocation of a facility's license or imposition of civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to obtain required regulatory, zoning or other required approvals for renovations and expansions, our growth may be restrained and our operating results may be adversely affected. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from such requirements, but we cannot predict their future impact on our operations.. We may be unable to successfully implement the Compliance Program or timely implement recommendations made by the Compliance Officer in connection with the Compliance Program or otherwise comply with the Permanent Injunction and Final Judgment.. On October 21, 2016, the Defendants, agreed to the entry of the PIFJ with BMFEA relating to the criminal charges filed against the Defendants in connection with the death of a client in 2010 at one of our former locations. Pursuant to the terms of the PIFJ, we were required to, among other things, (i) institute the California Compliance Program with respect to our California facilities that includes maintaining or developing and implementing certain policies and procedures to promote each covered facility's compliance with applicable statutes, regulations and the PIFJ, under the responsibility of our Chief Compliance Officer; (ii) establish a Compliance Committee composed of the Compliance Officer and senior personnel responsible for overseeing clinical operations to address issues raised by the Compliance Officer in connection with the Compliance Program and (iii) establish an oversight committee of the Board of Directors, or a committee of the Board of Directors, to review the adequacy and responsiveness of the California Compliance Program. In addition, for a period of 30 months following the effective date of the PIFJ, which was October 21, 2016, the Defendants shall retain a qualified independent monitor, appointed by BMFEA after consultation with the Defendants, to assess the effectiveness of the Defendants' quality control systems and patient care.. Since 2016, we have incurred costs in connection with the implementation of and compliance under the California Compliance Program and PIFJ, and expect to continue to incur, costs in connection with the California Compliance Program and with the PIFJ. The Company has been subject to the California Compliance Program for 16 months and continues to comply with its obligations and interactions with the Compliance Officer. Such efforts will be ongoing during the full term of the California Compliance Program. If we are not able to successfully fulfill our obligations under the California Compliance Program or timely implement recommendations made by the Compliance Officer in connection with the California Compliance Program, the BMFEA may pursue remedies under the PIFJ, including assessment of fines and civil and criminal actions. Should the BMFEA pursue remedies under the PIFJ, we could face significant fines and actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or becoming subject to additional U.S., state or local taxes, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to tax liabilities, including federal and state taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority which could increase our tax liabilities. If we are required to pay additional taxes, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" which includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 25. Risks Related to the Acquisition of AdCare. Our pending acquisition of AdCare, Inc. (\"AdCare\") is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory provisions and may not be consummated, and if not consummated under certain circumstances, we may be subject to termination fees under the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).. On September 13, 2017, we announced that we had entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the \"Purchase Agreement\") with AdCare, AdCare Holding Trust, a Massachusetts business trust (\"AdCare Trust\") and AAC Healthcare Network, Inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, to acquire AdCare. Our obligation to complete the acquisition is subject to certain additional customary closing conditions and regulatory provisions. The Purchase Agreement contains certain termination rights, including the possible payment of a Termination Fee (as defined in the Purchase Agreement) to AdCare Trust, if, among other things, we breach any covenant, representation or warranty which prevents the satisfaction of any condition to the obligations of AdCare or AdCare Trust at closing and which has not been waived by AdCare Trust; if AdCare Trust has satisfied all closing conditions and we fail to close the transaction; or if we fail to satisfy certain conditions precedent to obtain any financing to fund the purchase price of the transaction. The acquisition is currently anticipated to close in the next 30 to 60 days, subject to the receipt of certain governmental approvals, financing and customary closing conditions. We cannot assure that the acquisition will be consummated on this timeline or at all.. If we are unable to complete our contemplated acquisition of AdCare, our expected financial results and the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected.. If the contemplated acquisition of AdCare is not completed for any reason, we would have devoted substantial resources and management attention to the transaction without realizing the accompanying benefits expected by our management, and our financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties associated with an inability to complete the transaction include the diversion of the attention of our employees and management due to activities related to the acquisition, which may harm our relationships with our employees, patients, suppliers and other business partners, and may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations; or may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community.. The failure to successfully integrate AdCare's business and operations may adversely affect our future results.. We believe that the acquisition of AdCare will result in certain benefits to us, including our ability to provide services to patients under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the business and operations of AdCare must be successfully integrated into our existing business. The success of the acquisition will depend on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits. Other potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include (i) the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets of AdCare in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on our employees, patients, suppliers and other business partners; and (ii) potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including costs to integrate AdCare's business that may exceed the costs that we currently anticipate. Accordingly, the contemplated benefits of the pending AdCare acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our directors, executive officers and certain employees and their respective affiliates have substantial control over the company and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. Our directors, executive officers and certain employees owned, in the aggregate, approximately 33% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. Michael T. Cartwright, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliates owned approximately 21% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have substantial control over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, will continue to have significant influence over the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of:. •  delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or. •  discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. 26. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Nevada law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, which we refer to as our bylaws, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions:. •  permit our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in our control;. •  provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board of Directors;. •  provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. •  provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide notice in writing in a timely manner and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder's notice;. •  provide that our stockholders may not take action by written consent, but may only take action at annual or special meetings of our stockholders;. •  do not provide for cumulative voting rights (therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose); and. •  provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, our Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors or the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock.. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\"). For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our IPO in October 2014, although we could lose that status sooner if our revenue exceeds $1.07 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates meets or exceeds $700 million as of any June 30th before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31st. If some investors find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period for implementing new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies that are not emerging growth companies."
