[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following is a description of the principal risks inherent in our business.. We are affected by factors that adversely impact the commercial aviation industry.. As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected in the past by geopolitical events, high fuel and oil prices, lack of capital, and weak economic conditions. As a result of these and other events, from time to time certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operation. The impact of instability in the global financial markets may lead airlines to reduce domestic or international capacity. In addition, certain of our airline customers have in the past been impacted by tight credit markets, which limited their ability to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft.. A reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected. Further, tight credit conditions negatively impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. A deteriorating airline environment may also result in additional airline bankruptcies, and in such circumstances we may not be able to fully collect outstanding accounts receivable. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight credit conditions and customer bankruptcies, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the following:. <U+0095> deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers;    <U+0095> reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support;     <U+0095> retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft;     <U+0095> reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines;    <U+0095> increased in-house maintenance by airlines;    <U+0095> lack of parts in the marketplace;    <U+0095> acts of terrorism;    <U+0095> future outbreaks of infectious diseases; and    <U+0095> acts of God.. Our U.S. government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales to branches, agencies and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $304.3 million (17.4% of consolidated sales) in fiscal 2018 (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our U.S. government sales is for products and services supporting DoD logistics and mobility strategy and is, therefore, subject to changes in defense and other governmental agency funding and spending. Our contracts with the U.S. government and their contractors are typically agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the government customer. Sales to agencies of the U.S. government and their contractors are subject to a number of. 7. Table of Contents. factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding, requirements generated by world events, and budgetary constraints.. U.S. government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation, including the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the \"debt ceiling\"). These issues could negatively affect the timely collection of our U.S. government invoices.. Future congressional appropriation and authorization of defense spending and the application of sequestration remain marked by significant debate and an uncertain schedule. The federal debt limit continues to be actively debated as plans for long-term national fiscal policy are discussed. The outcome of these debates could have a significant impact on defense spending broadly and programs we support in particular.. If there are funding delays and constraints, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. government contracts even if the U.S. government is unable to make timely payments. Future budget cuts, including cuts mandated by sequestration, or future procurement decisions could result in reductions, cancellations, and/or delays of existing contracts or programs which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts.. We sell certain of our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers under firm contracts providing for fixed unit prices, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead, and other unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Success at our airframe maintenance facilities is dependent upon continued outsourcing by the airlines.. We currently perform airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at seven leased locations. Revenues at these facilities fluctuate based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. In addition, certain airlines operate certain new fleet types and/or newer generation aircraft and we may not have contractual arrangements to service these aircraft nor technicians trained and certified to perform the required airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities. If either the number of aircraft operating or the level of outsourcing of maintenance activities declines, we may not be able to execute our operational and financial plans at our maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us.. The markets for our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers are highly competitive, and we face competition from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft component and parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors, and other expeditionary airlift service providers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. These competitive markets also create pressure on our ability to hire and retain qualified technicians and other skilled labor needs. We believe that our. 8. Table of Contents. ability to compete depends on superior customer service and support, on-time delivery, sufficient inventory availability, competitive pricing and effective quality assurance programs.. Our government customers, including the DoD, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for certain work, or may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than use us. We are also impacted by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in significant expense for us, contract modifications, or the award decision being overturned and loss of the contract award. Even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. These competitive pressures, with potential impacts on both our commercial and government business, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with new or more stringent governmental regulation.. The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries. We operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries, and hold certificates to operate aircraft. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us.. If any of our material licenses, certificates, authorizations, or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. If we fail to comply with government procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions.. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations include the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Truth in Negotiations Act, Cost Accounting Standards, and laws, regulations, and orders restricting the use and dissemination of classified information under the U.S. export control laws and the export of certain products and technical information and safeguarding of contractor information systems. Certain government contracts provide audit rights by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, business systems, internal controls and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or if a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil penalties, criminal penalties, or administrative sanctions, including suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our reputation could suffer harm if allegations of impropriety were made or found against us, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue.. 9. Table of Contents. We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally.. We conduct our business in a number of foreign countries, some of which are politically unstable or subject to military or civil conflicts. Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:. <U+0095> military conflicts, civil strife, and political risks;    <U+0095> export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports;    <U+0095> compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, United Kingdom (\"UK\") Anti-bribery Act, and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws;    <U+0095> the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations;     <U+0095> contract award and funding delays;    <U+0095> potential restrictions on transfers of funds;    <U+0095> import and export duties and value added taxes;    <U+0095> foreign exchange risk;    <U+0095> transportation delays and interruptions;    <U+0095> uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and    <U+0095> changes in U.S. policies on trade relations and trade policy, including implementation of or changes in trade sanctions, tariffs, and embargoes.. In addition, the UK held a referendum in 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (\"EU\"). On March 29, 2017, the UK government commenced the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the EU by notifying the European Council of the UK's intention to leave the EU. This notification started a two-year time period for the UK and the remaining EU countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. The final terms of the UK's potential exit from the EU have yet to be determined and it is possible there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and EU countries along with increased regulatory complexities.. While we have adopted and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business internationally, such measures may not be adequate, and the regions in which we operate might not continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all.. Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses.. We have completed multiple acquisitions over the past few years and we have discussions with third parties regarding acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. For any businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial, or integration plans for the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Table of Contents. Market values for our aviation products fluctuate and we may be unable to recover our costs incurred on engines, rotable components and other aircraft parts.. We make a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of rotable components, engines, and other assets which are on lease, available for lease, or supporting our long-term programs. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Reductions in demand for these assets or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our aircraft, engines, and other assets could result in impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to reduce the carrying value of our assets.. We own and distribute a significant amount of engines, aircraft parts and components, and manufacturing facilities and related equipment. The removal of aircraft from service or recurring losses in certain operations could require us to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those assets and record an impairment charge through earnings to reduce the carrying value. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized impairment charges of $54.2 million related to assets included in our COCO business which is classified as a discontinued operation. In addition, if aircraft or engines for which we offer replacement parts or supply repair and overhaul services are retired and there are fewer aircraft that require these parts or services, our revenues may decline.. We make a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of our assets including historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our assets could result in impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results, it may be necessary to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and related intangible assets. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million related to our COCO business. Similarly, if we were to lose a key customer or one of our airframe maintenance or landing gear facilities were to lose its authority to operate, we might be required to record an impairment charge.. We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us.. Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continued availability of debt and equity capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, state of the aviation industry, our financial performance, and credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants.. Certain financing arrangements, including our Revolving Credit Facility and our accounts receivable financing program, require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan and debt agreements and may result in a cross-default under other debt agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under our debt agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our. 11. Table of Contents. failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our industry is susceptible to product and other liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by insurance may adversely affect our financial condition.. Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and bodily injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or component, airframe part or accessory, or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured, or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we operated, serviced, or in which our products are installed, crashes. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.. Our businesses depend heavily on information technology and computerized systems to communicate and operate effectively. The Company's systems and technologies, or those of third parties on which we rely, could fail or become unreliable due to equipment failures, software viruses, cyber threats, ransomware attacks, terrorist acts, natural disasters, power failures or other causes. These threats arise in some cases as a result of our role as a defense contractor.. Cyber security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information, ransomware attacks, including our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data.. The procedures and controls we utilize to monitor and mitigate these threats may not be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results, and financial condition.. Moreover, expenditures incurred in implementing and maintaining cyber security and other procedures and controls could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may adversely affect us.. Federal, state, and local requirements relating to the discharge and emission of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, the remediation and abatement of contaminants, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Future environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning environmental issues, such as climate change, could adversely affect our operations and increase operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand for our products and services. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United States, foreign. 12. Table of Contents. governments, the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The industries in which we participate are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment, and methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages.. We are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce because of the complex nature of many of our products and services. Furthermore, we have a collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 155 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage. These and similar events may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition."
