[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks as well as the other information we include or incorporate by reference in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones we face. If any of these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you could lose all or part of your investment.. This section includes or refers to forward-looking statements. You should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations of such forward-looking statements discussed at the beginning of the report.. Risks Related to Our Business. We depend on Impella® products for a significant portion of our revenues.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near future, all of our revenues from sales of our Impella devices. While we cannot fully predict what level of revenues our Impella devices will generate, we anticipate that Impella revenues will continue to account for all of our revenues in the near future. Implementation of our business strategy depends on continued revenues from of our Impella devices. Our ability to generate revenues from our Impella devices may be impaired by the factors described below:. •  our failure to obtain approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities or to comply with government regulations, or the withdrawal of market clearance or the taking of other enforcement actions that could limit or impair our ability to sell our products;. •  lack of acceptance or continued acceptance by physicians;. •  our reliance on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials;. •  manufacturing or quality control problems;. •  our inability to protect our proprietary technologies or an infringement of others' patents;. •  the loss of a distributor or a distributor's failure to perform its obligations;. •  our failure to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors;. •  additional risks associated with selling in international markets;. •  long and variable sales and deployment cycles;. •  failure by third-party payers to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for hospitals and physicians using our products;. •  our failure to comply with federal and state regulations; and. •  product liability claims.. If we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our revenues or operating results may be harmed.. Competition from other companies offering circulatory care products is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. We compete with companies that have substantially greater or broader financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products. Factors affecting our competitive position include:. •  the availability of other products and procedures that are technically equivalent or superior to our products, and which may be sold at lower prices;. •  product performance and design;. •  product safety;. •  sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;. •  comparable clinical outcomes;. •  success and timing of new product development and introductions;. •  physician and hospital acceptance of our products;. 16. •  penetration into existing and new geographic markets; and. •  intellectual property protection.. Our customers are primarily hospitals that have limited budgets. As a result, our products compete against a broad range of medical devices and other therapies for these limited funds. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to enhance our existing products, to develop new products to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to achieve market acceptance for our products. We believe that important competitive factors with respect to the development and commercialization of our products include the relative speed with which we can develop products, establish clinical utility, complete clinical trials and regulatory approval processes, obtain and protect reimbursement, maintain cost effectiveness for our products, and supply commercial quantities of our products to our customers.. Advances in medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals may reduce the size of the potential markets for our products or render our products obsolete. We are aware of other heart replacement device research efforts in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. In addition, there are a number of companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Medtronic, Edwards Lifesciences, CardiacAssist, Terumo Heart, Teleflex, Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular), and several early-stage companies, that are developing heart assist products, including implantable left ventricular assist devices and miniaturized rotary ventricular assist devices that directly and indirectly compete with our products.. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products.. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. We have experienced significant growth in recent years in which we have expanded our operations and we have increased our employee headcount. This growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as our financial and operations resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, we will need to continue to grow. However, continued growth presents numerous challenges, including:. •  developing our global sales, marketing and administrative infrastructure and capabilities;. •  expanding manufacturing capacity, maintaining quality and increasing production;. •  increasing our foreign and domestic regulatory compliance capabilities;. •  implementing appropriate operational, financial and IT systems and internal controls;. •  identifying, attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly experienced clinical staff; and. •  hiring, training, managing and supervising our personnel worldwide.. Any failure to manage our growth effectively could impede our ability to successfully develop, market and sell our products, which could seriously harm our business.. The demand for our products and products under development is unproven, and we may be unable to successfully commercialize our products.. Our products and products under development may not enjoy commercial acceptance or success, which could adversely affect our business and operational results. We need to create new indication and geographic markets for our Impella devices and other existing products, as well as other new or future products, including achieving market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and third-party payers. In particular, we need to gain acceptance of our Impella devices among interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons. The obstacles we will face in trying to create successful commercial markets for our products include:. •  limitations inherent in first-generation devices, and our potential inability to develop successive improvements, including increases in service life and improvements in the ease of use of our products;. •  introduction by other companies of new treatments, products and technologies that compete with our products;. •  timing and amount of reimbursement for these products, if any, by third-party payers;. •  potential reluctance of clinicians and hospitals to obtain and support adequate training to use our products;. •  cost of our products; and. •  potential reluctance of physicians, patients, hospitals and society as a whole to accept medical devices that replace or assist the heart and risk of mechanical failure inherent in such devices.. 17. If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary governmental approvals for our products and indications, we may be unable to market and sell our products in certain jurisdictions.. Medical devices such as ours are extensively regulated by the FDA in the U.S. and by other federal, state, local and foreign authorities. Governmental regulations relate to the testing, development, manufacturing, labeling, design, sale, promotion, distribution, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must generally first receive PMA from the FDA. This process can be expensive and lengthy, and can entail significant expenses, primarily related to clinical trials. It generally takes between one to three years to receive approval, or even longer, from the time the PMA application is submitted to the FDA. Regulatory clearances or approvals, either foreign or domestic, may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for use of our products under development, or if the patient populations for which they are approved are not sufficiently broad, the commercial success of these products could be limited. The FDA may also limit the claims that we can make about our products. Any significant modifications to the design, materials, or intended use of those devices require FDA approval through PMA or HDE supplemental applications.. If we do not receive FDA approval for one or more of our products, we will be unable to market and sell those products in the U.S., which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects.. We also market or are beginning to market our products in international markets, including the European Union, Canada, and Japan. Regulatory approval processes differ among those jurisdictions and approval in the U.S. or any other single jurisdiction does not guarantee approval in any other jurisdiction. Obtaining foreign approvals could involve significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could require additional clinical trials.. If the FDA or another regulatory or enforcement agency determines that we have promoted our products for one or more off-label uses, we may be subject to various penalties, including civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of the Inspector General of Department of Health and Human Services, and other regulatory or enforcement agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting the promotion of unapproved medical devices and the promotion of otherwise approved or cleared medical devices for unapproved uses. If any such agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, such agencies could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion.. To the extent a regulatory agency commences such an investigation in the future, we may not be able to resolve that matter, without incurring penalties or facing significant consequences. Even if we are successful in resolving such a matter without incurring penalties, responding to a subpoena or other government inquiry could result in substantial costs and could significantly and adversely impact our reputation and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and ability to finance our operations.. Off-label use of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business.. The use of our products outside their approved indications for use, or \"off-label use,\" may increase the risk of injury to patients. Clinicians may use our products for off-label uses, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a clinician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. Off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims against us. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention and result in substantial damage awards against us.. 18. Unsuccessful clinical trials or procedures relating to products under development could have a material adverse effect on our prospects.. The regulatory approval process for new products and new indications for existing products often requires extensive clinical trials and procedures, including early clinical feasibility studies. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from current or future clinical trials or procedures conducted by us, our competitors, or third parties, or perceptions regarding such clinical data, could adversely affect both our ability to obtain necessary approvals and the market's view of our future prospects. Such clinical trials and procedures are inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that these clinical trials or procedures will be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner or result in a commercially viable product or expanded indication. Failure to successfully complete these clinical trials or procedures in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. Clinical trials or procedures may experience significant setbacks even after earlier trials have shown promising results. Further, preliminary results from clinical trials or procedures may be contradicted by subsequent clinical analysis. In addition, results from our clinical trials or procedures may not be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience. If preliminary clinical results are later contradicted, or if initial results cannot be supported by actual long-term studies or clinical experience, our business could be adversely affected. Clinical trials or procedures may be delayed, suspended, or terminated by us, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities at any time, if it is believed that the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or for numerous other reasons. The FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of the product candidate. The FDA may also require additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials which could further delay approval of our products.. Our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including continuing regulatory review, which could affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies continue to review products even after they have received initial approval. If and when the FDA or another regulatory agency clears or approves our products under development, the manufacture and marketing of these products will be subject to continuing regulation, post-approval clinical studies, including compliance with the FDA's adverse event reporting requirements, prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses, and Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which obligate manufacturers, including third-party and contract manufacturers, to adhere to stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the design and manufacture of a device.. Any modification to an FDA approved device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a supplemental PMA or HDE approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to determine in the first instance whether a modification requires approval, but the FDA may review and potentially disagree with any such decision. Modifications of this type are common with new products. We anticipate that the first generation of each of our products will undergo a number of changes, refinements, enhancements and improvements over time. If the FDA requires us to seek approval for modification of a previously approved product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. We also cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. We and our third-party suppliers of product components are also subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for QSR and our regulatory other requirements, the interpretation of which can change. Compliance with QSR and similar legal requirements can be difficult and expensive. Enforcement actions resulting from failure to comply with government requirements could result in fines, suspensions of approvals or clearances, recalls or seizure of products, operating restrictions or shutdown, and criminal prosecutions that could adversely affect the manufacture and marketing of our products. The FDA or another regulatory agency could withdraw a previously approved product from the market upon receipt of newly discovered information, including a failure to comply with regulatory requirements, the occurrence of unanticipated safety problems of other defects in products following approval, or other reasons, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls which could harm our reputation and divert our managerial and financial resources.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the government finds that our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors by us or our suppliers or design defects, including labeling defects, or unanticipated safety problems. We have in the past initiated voluntary recalls for some of our products and we could do so in the future. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources.. 19. We depend on third-party reimbursement to our customers for market acceptance of our products. If third-party payers fail to provide coverage and appropriate levels of reimbursement for the medical procedures in which our products are used, our sales and profitability would be adversely affected.. Sales of medical devices largely depend on the reimbursement of patients' medical expenses by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. Without the financial support of government reimbursement or third-party insurers' payments for patient care, the market for our products will be limited. Medical products and devices incorporating new technologies are closely examined by governments and private insurers to determine whether the products and devices will be covered by reimbursement, and if so, the level of reimbursement which may apply.. In October 2017, the American Hospital Association, or AHA, Coding Clinic publication confirmed an insertion code for all Impella cases thereby billing out to MS-DRG 215, Heart Assist System Implant, for all percutaneous uni-ventricular Impella insertions. The Company's Impella heart pumps are now most commonly reimbursed under three MS-DRG categories including: (1) percutaneous, uni-ventricular insertions in MS-DRG 215; (2) right and left side heart support known as bi-ventricular and removal in MS-DRG 1-2; and (3) hospitals receiving transferred patients with removal of the device in MS-DRG 268-269.  The AHA and the CMS have facilitated a system of care around the utilization of percutaneous heart pumps, and transfer of patients to specialized centers. This progress also represents the expansion of Impella FDA indications for High Risk PCI, AMI Cardiogenic Shock, and bi-ventricular support.. In April 2018, CMS released a proposed set of hospital payment levels for patient discharges after October 1, 2018.  The April 2018 Proposed Rule for the Inpatient Prospective Payment System, or IPPS, update includes ICD-10 coding and assignment of percutaneous Impella implantation to MS-DRG 215 for Other Heart Assist System Implant. The Proposed Rule also maintained bi-ventricular Impella support in MS-DRG 1-2 assignments, and Impella hospital transfer and support in MS-DRG 268-269 for the receiving hospital. Impella related procedures were previously assigned to MS-DRG 216-221 for assistance in the catheterization lab only, and were reimbursed at a lower rate than MS-DRG 215 and MS-DRGs 1-2. A designated DRG 215 code will simplify coding and enable hospitals to receive payment in multiple settings and indications. The MS-DRG 215 proposed rate is lower than the previous year based on the CMS process to evaluate hospital charges, length of stay, patient comorbidities, taking into account hospital efficiencies over the prior year. The proposed rule for IPPS is open for public comment until June 2018. The final rulemaking may differ substantially from this proposal and will take effect October 1, 2018.. In addition, third-party payers increasingly are requiring evidence that medical devices are cost-effective and if we are unable to meet this requirement, the third-party payer may not reimburse the use of our products, which could reduce sales of our products to healthcare providers who depend upon reimbursement for payment. We also cannot be sure that third-party payers will continue the current levels of reimbursement to physicians and medical centers for use of our products. Any reduction in the amount of this reimbursement could harm our business. Increasing awareness of healthcare costs, public interest in healthcare reform and continuing pressure from Medicare, Medicaid, group purchasing organizations and other payers to reduce costs in the healthcare industry, as well as increasing competition from other protective products, could make it more difficult for us to sell our products at current prices.. Changes in healthcare reimbursement systems in the U.S. and abroad could reduce our revenues and profitability.. In March 2010, the U.S. federal government enacted the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, which made changes to the manner in which many healthcare services are provided and paid for in the U.S. The ACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes on certain companies and individuals. Results of the recent U.S. elections in 2016 have created a political environment in which substantial portions of the ACA could be repealed or revised.  Recent tax reform legislation removes the financial penalty for individuals who do not have health insurance effective in 2019. In addition, proposed changes in regulations would allow wider availability of health insurance that does not provide coverage for all of the essential health benefits required under the ACA. It remains unclear what other portions of the ACA may remain, or what any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation or regulation. Any such future actions may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, including reducing significantly the number of Americans who have health insurance, which could lead our health care provider customers to be more cost conscious.  Accordingly, our business and results of operations could therefore be adversely affected by any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation or regulation.. Internationally, medical reimbursement systems vary significantly from country to country, with some countries limiting medical centers spending through fixed budgets, regardless of levels of patient treatment, and other countries requiring application for, and approval of, government or third-party reimbursement. Even if we succeed in bringing our new products to market, uncertainties regarding future healthcare policy, legislation and regulation, as well as private market practices, could affect our ability to sell our products in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices in certain countries.. 20. We must comply with healthcare \"fraud and abuse\" laws, and we could face substantial penalties for non-compliance and be excluded from government healthcare programs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights may be applicable to our business. We may be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws and regulations that govern our business operations, products, and technologies, and may affect our ability to operate, include:. •  federal, state, and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments to physicians or other purchasers of medical products as an inducement to purchase a product;. •  the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider;. •  federal and state laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA;. •  the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or PPSA, which requires public disclosure of the financial relationships of U.S. physicians and teaching hospitals with applicable manufacturers, including medical device, pharmaceutical, and biologics companies;. •  the FCA which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer; and. •  the FCPA which can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties outside the U.S.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity, and substantial costs and expenses associated with investigation, enforcement activities, and individual settlement agreements that impose a government monitor for a period of several years. To assist in our compliance efforts, we adhere to many codes of ethics and conduct regarding our sales and marketing activities in the United States and other countries in which we operate.. On April 25, 2014, we received an administrative subpoena from the Boston regional office of the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or HHS-OIG, requesting materials relating to our reimbursement of employee expenses and remuneration to healthcare providers from July 2012 through December 2012, in connection with a civil investigation under the False Claims Act.  Subsequently, we received Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, or the DOJ, that collectively sought additional information relating to this matter for the time period of January 1, 2011 through September 14, 2016.  DOJ's investigation derived from a civil qui tam action, United States ex rel. Max Bennett v. Abiomed, 13-cv-12277, filed on behalf of the United States and certain individual states in the District of Massachusetts by a former employee.  The complaint alleged violations of the Federal False Claims Act and analogous state false claims acts, as well as claims that we retaliated against Bennett in violation of federal and state law.. On March 6, 2018, we entered into a Settlement Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement, with the DOJ, on behalf of HHS-OIG, and Bennett to resolve the claims relating to the our reimbursement of employee expenses for meals with healthcare providers.  Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to pay $3.1 million, plus approximately $30,000 of accrued interest, to the U.S. government.  We also agreed to pay $150,000 to the former Company employee in settlement of his claims for reasonable expenses, costs and attorneys' fees.  The Settlement Agreement contained no admission of liability on the part of the Company and did not require us to enter into a corporate integrity agreement. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the U.S. government and the former Company employee agreed to release the Company from civil monetary liability arising from allegations that the Company caused third parties to submit false claims for payment to Medicare.  In connection with the resolution, the various state claims were dismissed without prejudice.. The Settlement Agreement did not resolve the former Company employee's individual claims of employment retaliation, against which we intend to defend vigorously.  We are not able to predict how the former Company employee's remaining claims might be resolved, or their potential impact on our financial position.. 21. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws, as well as export control laws, import and customs laws, trade and economic sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations.. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. §201, the U.S. Travel Act, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from authorizing, promising, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper or prohibited payments, or anything else of value, to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage.. We and those acting on our behalf operate in a number of jurisdictions where companies in the medical device and life science industries are exposed to a high risk of potential FCPA violations associated with sales to healthcare professionals and institutions. We participate in transactions with third parties whose corrupt or illegal activities could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws, even if we do not explicitly authorize or have actual knowledge of such activities. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Compliance with the FCPA and these other laws is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, anti-corruption laws present particular challenges in the medical device industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical trials and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to enforcement actions. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations.. There is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA or other legal requirements. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and suspension or debarment from government contracting.. Our future success depends in part on the development of new circulatory assist products, and our development efforts may not be successful.. We are devoting most of our research and development and regulatory efforts, and significant financial resources, to the development of our Impella devices and product extensions of existing commercial products and new products. The development of new products and product extensions presents enormous challenges in a variety of areas, including blood compatible surfaces, blood compatible flow, manufacturing techniques, pumping mechanisms, physiological control, energy transfer, anatomical fit and surgical techniques. We may be unable to overcome all of these challenges, which could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects and limit our ability to bring new products to market.. The commercial success of our products will require acceptance by cardiac surgeons and interventional cardiologists, a limited number of whom have significant influence over medical device selection and purchasing decisions.. We may achieve our business objectives only if our products are accepted and recommended by leading cardiac surgeons and interventional cardiologists, whose decisions are likely to be based on a determination that our products are safe and effective and represent acceptable, cost-effective methods of treatment. Although we have developed relationships with leading cardiac surgeons, the commercial success of Impella devices and our other products will require that we also develop relationships with leading interventional cardiologists in cath labs. We cannot assure you that we can maintain our existing relationships and arrangements or that we can establish new relationships in support of our products. If cardiac surgeons and interventional cardiologists do not consider our products to be adequate for the treatment of our target cardiac patient population or if a sufficient number of these clinicians recommend and use competing products, it would seriously harm our business.. 22. Expansion into hospital cardiac centers that have not historically used our products may incur long sales and training cycles that may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.. Our products have lengthy sales cycles and we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant effort without making a sale. We sell primarily to hospitals that often have administrative requirements to introduce and expand a new technology, such as Impella devices, at their sites. Even after making the decision to purchase our Impella devices, our customers often deploy our products slowly or infrequently. In addition, cardiac centers of hospitals that buy the majority of our products are usually led by cardiac surgeons who are heavily recruited by competing hospitals. When one of these cardiac surgeons moves to a new hospital, we sometimes experience a significant reduction in purchases by the hospital from which the physician has departed while it replaces the lead physician supporting our Impella devices. As a result, our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, product purchases often lag behind initial expressions of interest in our product by new centers as training and education regarding the use of the products and as well there are internal hospital administrative requirements prior to the initial implant procedures.. The training required for clinicians to use our products could reduce the market acceptance of our products and reduce our revenue.. Clinicians must be trained to use our products proficiently. It is critical to the success of our business that we ensure that there are a sufficient number of clinicians familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our products. Convincing clinicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary to obtain adequate training in the use of our products is challenging and we may not be successful in these efforts. If clinicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. Any improper use of our products may result in unsatisfactory outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could harm our reputation and affect future product sales. Furthermore, our inability to educate and train clinicians to use our products may lead to lower demand for our products.. If we are unable to develop additional, high-quality manufacturing capacity, our growth may be limited and our business could be seriously harmed.. To be successful, we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity to support continued demand for our products. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up manufacturing of our products, including problems related to product yields, quality control and assurance, component and service availability, dependable sources of supply, adequacy of internal control policies and procedures and lack of skilled personnel. If we cannot hire, train and retain enough experienced and capable scientific, technical, and manufacturing employees, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our existing or future products on time and at an acceptable cost, which could limit market acceptance of our products or otherwise damage our business. In order to meet the expected demand for our Impella devices, we have been implementing process improvements on the Impella production line at our manufacturing facilities in Aachen, Germany and Danvers, Massachusetts to increase the output that we can produce at the facility. In addition to programs designed to further increase yield and capacity levels, we have expanded manufacturing employment and increased manufacturing floor space in Danvers and Aachen. We have relocated selected Impella sub-assembly production to our manufacturing facility in Danvers, Massachusetts and with third party-suppliers and established additional production of the Impella CP device in Danvers to support manufacturing at our Impella production facility in Aachen. We continue to work on initiatives to expand our Impella manufacturing capacity in both Aachen and Danvers. We are also working with our existing suppliers and new suppliers to ensure we are able to have sufficient inventory as we increase our manufacturing capability to support growing demand.  We are and will continue to outsource certain sub assembly production to third-party suppliers.We are also working on process improvements, such as certain automation techniques, to allow us to manufacture our products more efficiently. If we are unable to implement these process improvements on a timely basis in order to meet customer demand, it could inhibit our revenue growth.. Any failure to achieve and maintain the high manufacturing standards that our products require may seriously harm our business.. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel as well as our vendors. Any failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. If we or our vendors are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, or if we are unable to procure additional high-quality manufacturing facilities, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected.. 23. If we cannot attract and retain key management, scientific, sales and other personnel we need, we will not be successful.. We depend heavily on the contributions of the principal members of our business, such as financial, technical, sales and support, regulatory and clinical, operating, manufacturing and administrative management and staff, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Our key personnel include our senior officers, many of whom have very specialized scientific, medical or operational knowledge. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management team may significantly delay or prevent our achievement of our business objectives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors is critical to our success. For example, many of the members of our clinical staff are registered nurses with experience in the surgery suite or cath lab, of which only a limited number of whom seek employment with a company like ours. Competition for skilled and experienced personnel in the medical device industry is intense. We face competition for skilled and experienced management, scientific, clinical, engineering and sales personnel from numerous medical device and life sciences companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. If we lose the services of any of the principal members of our management and staff, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, especially scientific, clinical and sales personnel, our business could be adversely affected.. If our suppliers cannot provide the components we require, our ability to manufacture our products could be harmed.. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with many of the components used in our existing products and products in development. For example, we outsource the manufacturing of most of our consoles other than final assembly and testing and the sterilization process for our products. Relying on third-party suppliers makes us vulnerable to component part failures or obsolescence and interruptions in supply, either of which could impair our ability to conduct clinical tests or to ship our products to our customers on a timely basis. Using third-party vendors makes it difficult and sometimes impossible for us to test fully certain components, such as components on circuit boards, maintain quality control, manage inventory and production schedules and control production costs. Manufacturers of our product components may be required to comply with the FDA or other regulatory manufacturing regulations and to satisfy regulatory inspections in connection with the manufacture of the components. Any failure by a supplier to comply with applicable requirements could lead to a disruption in supply. Vendor lead times to supply us with ordered components vary significantly and often can exceed six months or more. Both now, and as we expand our manufacturing capacity, we cannot be sure that our suppliers will furnish us required components when we need them or be able to provide us with sufficient inventory to support our expected growth in demand for our products. These factors could make it more difficult for us to manufacture our products effectively and efficiently and could adversely impact our results of operations.. Some of our suppliers may be the only source for a particular component, which makes us vulnerable to significant cost increases or shortage of supply. We have many foreign suppliers for some of our parts in which we are subject to currency exchange rate volatility. Some of our vendors are small in size and may have difficulty supplying the quantity and quality of materials required for our products as our business grows. Vendors that are the sole source of certain products may decide to limit or eliminate sales of certain components due to product liability or other concerns and we might not be able to find a suitable replacement for those products. Our inventory may run out before we find alternative suppliers and we might be forced to purchase substantial inventory, if available, to last until we are able to qualify an alternate supplier. If we cannot obtain a necessary component, we may need to find, test and obtain regulatory approval or clearance for a replacement component, produce the component ourselves or redesign the related product, which would cause significant delay and could increase our manufacturing costs. Any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations.. We may not be successful in expanding our direct sales activities into international markets.. We are seeking to expand our international sales of our products by recruiting direct sales and support teams outside the U.S. Our international operations in Germany, Japan, France, Canada, the United Kingdom and Singapore are or will be subject to a number of risks, which may vary from the risks we experience in the U.S., including:. •  the need to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign countries before our products may be sold or used;. •  the need to procure reimbursement for our products in each foreign market;. •  the generally lower level of reimbursement available in foreign markets relative to the U.S.;. •  the requirement to work with distributors or other partners to sell our products;. •  longer sales cycles;. •  limited protection of intellectual property rights;. •  difficulty and delays in collecting accounts receivable;. •  different income tax and sales tax environments;. 24. •  difficulty in supporting patients using our products;. •  difficulty in attracting employees in foreign countries who want to work for a smaller U.S. based company;. •  different payroll, employee benefits and statutory requirements;. •  fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and. •  political and economic instability.. If we are unable to effectively expand our sales activities in international markets, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. We rely on distributors to sell our products in some international markets and poor performance by a distributor could reduce our sales and harm our business.. We rely on distributors to market and sell our products in certain parts of Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East. Many of these distributors have the exclusive right to distribute our products in their territory. We may hire distributors to market our products in additional international markets in the future. Our success in these markets will depend almost entirely upon the efforts of our distributors, over whom we have little or no control. If a distributor does not market and sell our products effectively and maintain a continued focus on the sale, distribution and support of our products up to our standards, we could lose sales and impair our ability to compete and introduce our technology in that market. We are also subject to credit risk and foreign currency risk associated with shipments to our distributors and this could negatively impact our financial condition and liquidity in the future.. The profitability we have achieved in recent years may not be indicative of our ability to sustain profitability and it is possible that we may incur losses from operations in future periods.. We have recognized net income of $112.2 million, $52.1 million and $38.1 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The profitability we achieved in recent years may not be indicative of our ability to sustain future profitability and it is possible that we may incur losses from operations or net losses in future periods. Any losses incurred in the future may result primarily from, among other things:. •  the expansion of our global distribution network;. •  investments in new markets such as Japan;. •  ongoing product and clinical development;. •  costs related to new business development initiatives, such as potential acquisitions of businesses;. •  legal expenses related to patent and other matters, such as the Maquet dispute;. •  costs associated with hiring additional personnel, performing clinical trials, continuing our research and development relating to our products under development, seeking regulatory approvals and, if we receive these approvals, commencing commercial manufacturing and marketing activities;. •  expanded marketing initiatives, particularly with recent PMA approvals in the U.S.;. •  income and other related taxes;. •  increase in stock-based compensation as we hire new employees and our stock prices has continued or could expect to continue to increase in the future;. •  significant expenditures necessary to market and manufacture in commercial quantities our approved circulatory care products; and. •  the amount of these expenditures is difficult to forecast accurately and cost overruns may occur.. 25. Our operating results may fluctuate unpredictably.. Historically, our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated widely and we expect these fluctuations to continue. Among the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate are:. •  timing of customer orders and deliveries;. •  seasonality of  sales in the U.S. and European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures during the first half of our fiscal year;. •  competitive changes, such as price changes or new product introductions that we or our competitors may make;. •  the impact of additional investments to expand manufacturing capacity on cost of product sales;. •  the timing of regulatory actions, such as product approvals or recalls;. •  costs we incur developing and testing our Impella heart pumps and other products;. •  costs we incur in anticipation of future sales, such as inventory purchases, expansion of manufacturing facilities, or establishment of international sales offices;. •  additional taxes;. •  impact and timing of equity awards on stock-based compensation;. •  timing of certain marketing programs and events;. •  availability of physicians to use our products, as there are seasonal impacts, due to physician vacations or training events that limit their ability to be in the hospital to perform procedures that involve our products;. •  impact of any businesses or technologies we may acquire in the future;. •  economic conditions in the healthcare industry;. •  efforts by governments, insurance companies and others to contain healthcare costs, including changes to reimbursement policies; and. •  impact of adoption of certain accounting standards.. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results are not necessarily meaningful, and investors should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. To the extent we experience the factors described above, our future operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors from time to time, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We may undergo an \"ownership change\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would limit our ability to utilize net operating losses from prior tax years.. If we undergo an \"ownership change\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards from prior years to reduce taxable income in future tax years might be limited by the Internal Revenue Code, either by limiting the amount of net operating losses that can be utilized to offset taxable income in a given year, or in total over the entire carry-forward period. Certain changes in the ownership of our common stock may result in an ownership change sufficient to limit the availability of our net operating losses. Net operating losses, foreign tax credits and research and development credits have expiry dates in the U.S. and the ability to fully utilize them will be dependent upon generating taxable income in the future. We also have net operating loss carry-forwards in other countries outside of the U.S. and our ability to use those losses in the future to offset taxable income could be limited by tax regulations in those countries.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws, including recently enacted U.S. Tax Reform legislation, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or Tax Reform, was signed into law that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a rate of 21%, effective January 1, 2018, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after fiscal 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, revisions to the treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes of foreign earnings, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation. 26. expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  We have made a provisional estimate of the effects of Tax Reform on our existing deferred tax balances; however, many aspects of the new tax law are uncertain. The law will require significant judgments to be made in the interpretation of various provisions, and the U.S. Treasury Department or Internal Revenue Service could interpret or issue guidance that is different from our interpretation. As a result of Tax Reform, we are currently evaluating the realizability of our tax attributes such as net operating losses, foreign tax credits, and research credits with potential tax planning strategies. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law and this could also impact our tax obligations. Notwithstanding the fact that Tax Reform reduces the U.S. federal income tax rate for corporations, it could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We may not have sufficient funds to develop and commercialize our new products or make acquisitions of desirable companies, products or technologies.. The development, manufacture and sale of any medical device is very expensive and we may require additional funds to make acquisitions of desirable companies, products or technologies. We cannot be sure that we will have the necessary funds to develop and commercialize our new products or acquire companies, products or technologies, or that additional funds will be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain the necessary funding to support these efforts, our business may be adversely affected. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to finance our operations for at least the next fiscal year. We also may evaluate from time to time other financing alternatives as necessary to fund operations, and any equity or convertible debt financing may involve substantial dilution to our existing stockholders.. We own patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property and know-how that we believe give us a competitive advantage. If we cannot protect our intellectual property and develop or otherwise acquire additional intellectual property, competition could force us to lower our prices, which could hurt our profitability.. Our intellectual property rights are and will continue to be a critical component of our success.  We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights.  If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours.. A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the Impella devices and other products under development is in the form of trade secrets, rather than patents. Unlike patents, trade secrets are only recognized under applicable law if they are kept secret by restricting their disclosure to third parties. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. However, certain consultants and third parties with whom we have business relationships, and to whom in some cases we have disclosed trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge, may also provide services to other parties in the medical device industry, including companies, universities and research organizations that are developing or marketing competing products. In addition, some of our former employees who were aware of certain of our trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge in the course of their employment may seek employment with, and become employed by, our competitors. We cannot be assured that consultants, employees and other third parties with whom we have entered into confidentiality agreements will not breach the terms of such agreements by improperly using or disclosing our trade secrets or other proprietary knowledge, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. The loss of trade secret protection for technologies or know-how relating to our product portfolio and products under development could adversely affect our business and our prospects.. Our business position also depends in part on our ability to maintain and defend our existing patents and obtain, maintain, and defend additional patents and other intellectual property rights. We intend to seek additional patents, but our pending and future patent applications may not result in issued patents or be granted on a timely basis.  In addition, issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. The scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinctive patent laws. We may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. Patent prosecution, related proceedings, and litigation in the U.S. and in other countries may be expensive, time consuming and ultimately unsuccessful. In addition, patents issued by foreign countries may afford less protection than is available under U.S. patent law and may not adequately protect our proprietary information. Our competitors may independently develop proprietary technologies and processes that are the same as or substantially equivalent to ours or design around our patents. Our competition may also hold or obtain intellectual property rights that would threaten our ability to develop or commercialize our product offerings.  The expiration of patents on which we rely for protection of key products could diminish our competitive advantage and adversely affect our business and our prospects.. 27. Companies in the medical device industry typically obtain patents and frequently engage in substantial intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the rights of others. If a third party successfully asserts a claim for infringement against us, we may be liable for substantial damages, be unable to sell products using that technology, or have to seek a license or redesign the related product. These alternatives may be uneconomical or impossible. Intellectual property litigation could be costly, result in product development delays and divert the efforts and attention of management from our business.. For a discussion of our material legal proceedings, including those related to patent matters, as of March 31, 2018, please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements entitled \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" which is incorporated by reference into this item.. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial results.. The clinical use of medical products, even after regulatory approval, poses an inherent risk of product liability claims. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage, subject to certain deductibles and exclusions. We cannot be sure that product liability insurance will be available in the future or will be available on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, or that such insurance will provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain physician endorsement of our products or expand our business. As we continue to expand use or our existing products and introduce more products, we face an increased risk that a product liability claim will be brought against us.. Some of our products are designed for patients who suffer from late-stage or end-stage heart failure, and many of these patients do not survive, even when supported by our products. There are many factors beyond our control that could result in patient death, including the condition of the patient prior to use of the product, the skill and reliability of physicians and hospital personnel using and monitoring the product and product maintenance by customers. However, the failure of our products used for clinical testing or sale could give rise to product liability claims and negative publicity.. The risk of product liability claims is heightened when we sell products that are intended to support a patient until the end of life. The finite life of our products, as well as complications associated with their use, could give rise to product liability claims whether or not the products have extended or improved the quality of a patient's life. If we have to pay product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial condition will be adversely affected.. Quality problems can result in substantial costs and inventory write-downs.. Government regulations require us to track materials used in the manufacture of our products, so that if a problem is identified in one product it can be traced to other products that may have the same problem. An identified quality problem may require reworking or scrapping related inventory and/or recalling previous shipments. Because a malfunction in our products can possibly be life-threatening, we may be required to recall and replace, free of charge, products already in the marketplace. Any quality problem could cause us to incur significant expenses, lead to significant write-offs, injure our reputation and harm our business and financial results.. Disruptions of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition.. We rely in part on information technology to store information, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy, secure our data and accurately produce our financial statements. If our information technology systems do not effectively and securely collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations would be materially impaired. Any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the timeliness with which we report our operating results.. Our business requires us to use and store personally identifiable information of our customers, vendors, employees and business partners and, in certain instances patients treated with our products in the clinical setting. We are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to HIPAA and the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA. The GDPR is a comprehensive update to the data protection regime in the European Economic Area that is effective in fiscal 2019. The GDPR imposes new requirements relating to, among other things, consent to process personal data of individuals, the information provided to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data, the security and confidentiality of personal data, and notifications in the event of data breaches and use of third party processors. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and penalties for noncompliance with the GDPR.. 28. Cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and in some cases have caused significant harm. While we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, including our own proprietary information and the confidential and personally identifiable information of our customers, employees, business partners and patients, these measures cannot provide absolute security. The costs to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, resulting potentially in the theft, loss, destruction or corruption of information we store electronically, as well as unexpected interruptions, delays or cessation of service, any of which could cause harm to our business operations. Moreover, if a computer security breach or cyber-attack affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of proprietary or personally identifiable information, our reputation could be materially damaged and our operations could be impaired. We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we acquire other companies or businesses, we will be subject to risks that could hurt our business.. We may pursue acquisitions to obtain complementary businesses, products or technologies. Any such acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate and an acquired business, product or technology might not perform as we expect. Our management could spend a significant amount of time, effort and money in identifying, pursuing and completing the acquisition. If we complete an acquisition, we may encounter significant difficulties and incur substantial expenses in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company into our operations. In particular, we may lose the services of key employees of the acquired company and we may make changes in management that impair the acquired company's relationships with its legacy employees, vendors and customers. Additionally, we may acquire development-stage companies that are not yet profitable and which require continued investment, which could decrease our future earnings. We may assume significant liabilities in such a transaction.. Any of these outcomes could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. To pay for an acquisition, we might use stock or cash. Alternatively, we might borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use stock, our stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity would be reduced.. If we include future milestones as part of the potential purchase price of an acquisition, as we did in connection with our acquisition of ECP in July 2014, then we will have to estimate the value of these milestones each reporting period and any changes underlying these estimates with respect to expected timing or valuation of these milestones could have a volatile impact on our earnings.. We periodically make investments in private medical device companies that focus on heart failure, heart pump and other medical device technologies.  The aggregate carrying amount of our portfolio of other investments was $12.6 million and $7.2 million at March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and is classified within other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. During the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, we made investments of $6.4 million and $2.9 million in private medical device companies. These investments are accounted for using the cost method and are evaluated for impairment and measured at fair value only if there are identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of these investments.. 29. Revisions to accounting standards and financial reporting and corporate governance requirements could result in changes to our standard practices and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management.. We must follow accounting standards and financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws set by the governing bodies and lawmakers in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions where we do business, as well as NASDAQ. From time to time, these governing bodies and lawmakers implement new and revised rules and laws. These new and revised accounting standards and financial reporting and corporate governance requirements may require changes to our financial statements, financial and governance reporting requirements, the composition of our Board of Directors, the responsibility and manner of operation of various board level committees and the information filed by us with governing bodies. On April, 1, 2017, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, standard update ASU 2016-09, \"Compensation  -  Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,\" or ASU 2016-09, which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, recognition of stock compensation award forfeitures, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, the calculation of diluted shares outstanding and classification on the statement of cash flows.  For a discussion on the impact of this accounting adoption, including the impact on excess tax benefits recognized us, please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements entitled \"Summary of Significant Accounting Principles,\" which is incorporated by reference into this item. Our main accounting practices that may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows:. •  accounting for revenue recognition;. •  accounting for intangibles - goodwill and other;. •  accounting for fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities;. •  accounting for income taxes;. •  accounting for stock-based compensation;. •  accounting for leases; and. •  accounting for business combinations.. Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws likely will require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources. It is impossible to completely predict the impact, if any, on us of future changes to accounting standards and financial reporting and corporate governance requirements.. In May 2014, the FASB, issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers to provide updated guidance on revenue recognition. This new standard will replace most of the existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. ASU 2014-09 requires a company to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies may need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the current accounting guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. The guidance also requires expanded disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Additionally, qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required about customer contracts, significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from the costs to obtain or fulfill a contract.  We will adopt ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and compliance with this new standard may require a significant expenditure of time, attention and other resources.. We use estimates, make judgments and apply certain methods in measuring the progress of our business in determining our financial results and in applying our accounting policies. As these estimates, judgments and methods change, our assessment of the progress of our business and our results of operations could vary.. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, complexities, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in any of our assumptions may cause variation in our financial reporting and may adversely affect our reported financial results.. 30. Environmental and health safety laws may result in liabilities, expenses and restrictions on our operations.. Federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and human health and safety may adversely affect our business. Using hazardous substances in our operations exposes us to the risk of accidental injury, contamination or other liability from the use, storage, importation, handling, or disposal of hazardous materials. If our or our suppliers' operations result in the contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, we could be liable for damages and fines, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We maintain insurance for certain environmental risks, subject to substantial deductibles; however, we cannot assure you we can continue to maintain this insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. Future changes to environmental and health and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or restrict our operations.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and results of operations.. Because some of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro. At present, we do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, revenues and expenses occurring in the future that are denominated in foreign currencies may be translated into U.S. dollars at less favorable rates, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. For example, from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, the price of our stock ranged from a low of $117.37 per share to a high of $304.28 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. Some of these factors are:. •  variations in our quarterly results of operations;. •  status of regulatory approvals for our products;. •  introduction of new products by us or our competitors;. •  acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors;. •  changes in healthcare policy or third-party reimbursement practices;. •  changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  the hiring or departure of key personnel;. •  results of clinical trials of our products;. •  notice of a recall or other safety issue that impacts the ability for customers to use our products;. •  future sales of shares of common stock in the public market;. •  the outcome of currently pending litigation and governmental investigations, or the initiation of additional litigation or government investigations against the company; and. •  market conditions in the industry, particularly around reimbursement for our products and the economy as a whole.. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for shares of medical device companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business.. 31. The sale of additional shares of our common stock, the issuance of restricted stock units or the exercise of outstanding options to purchase our common stock, would dilute our stockholders' ownership interest.. We have historically issued restricted stock units and stock options to acquire our common stock and we expect to continue to issue restricted stock units and stock options to our employees and others in the future. If all outstanding stock options were exercised and all outstanding restricted stock units vested, our stockholders would suffer dilution of their ownership interest. In addition, we have issued from time to time, additional shares of our common stock in connection with acquisitions, public offerings, and other activities. Future issuances of our common stock would also result in a dilution of our stockholders' ownership interest.. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and may prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium on our stock.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would allow our stockholders to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. Those provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law are intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control which could negatively affect our stock price.. The market value of our common stock could vary significantly based on market perceptions of the status of our product development efforts.. The perception of securities analysts regarding our product development efforts could significantly affect our stock price. As a result, the market price of our common stock has and could in the future change substantially when we or our competitors make product announcements. Many factors affecting our stock price are industry related and beyond our control.. We have not paid and do not expect to pay dividends and any return on our stockholders' investment will likely be limited to gains realized based on the value of our common stock.. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on our stockholders' investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates."
