[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the acquisition of GCA.. The benefits that are expected to result from the acquisition of GCA will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies from the acquisition. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on a number of factors. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as GCA. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities or the activities of the GCA business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our Company, service existing clients, and attract new clients. In addition, we have not fully implemented our 2020 Vision, which is expected to generate significant benefits to the Company. Time and distraction relating to the acquisition of GCA could detract from the ability to achieve the benefits anticipated with respect to our 2020 Vision. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process or if any significant business activities including 2020 Vision initiatives are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate GCA. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Even if we are able to integrate GCA successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of GCA. While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to integrate the business or delays in the integration process. In addition, the overall integration may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client and other relationships, or loss of key employees, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.. We incurred a substantial amount of debt to complete the acquisition of GCA. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We also depend on the profitability of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. If we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required to service our indebtedness or we may be required to suspend certain discretionary payments, including our dividend.. In connection with the acquisition of GCA, on September 1, 2017, we refinanced and replaced our existing credit facility with a new syndicated secured credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") consisting of a $900 million revolving line of credit and an $800 million amortizing term loan with a five-year term. On September 1, 2017, we borrowed approximately $1.3 billion under the Credit Facility. Our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs, make planned capital expenditures, or continue our dividend.. The degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. For example, it could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, share repurchases, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; limit our availability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.. Additionally, an increased level of borrowing increases our interest expense, which could negatively impact our profitability. As current interest rates on our credit facility are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility contains both financial covenants and other covenants that limit our ability to engage in specific transactions. Any failure to comply with covenants in the credit facility could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us.. 7. Changes to our businesses, operating structure, financial reporting structure, or personnel relating to the implementation of our 2020 Vision strategic transformation initiative, including our move to our Enterprise Services Center, may not have the desired effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we announced our transformation initiative (\"2020 Vision\"), which is intended to differentiate ABM in the marketplace, accelerate revenue growth for certain industry groups, and improve our margin profile. We may not be able to execute on this strategy as a result of numerous factors, such as client resistance to an integrated approach, inability to deliver requested end-to-end services, and difficulty penetrating certain markets. Even if we are able to execute our 2020 Vision, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. For example, although we may be able to leverage scale to manage costs more efficiently and effectively, the realignment of our business operations may not provide us with the anticipated competitive advantage or revenue growth. Moreover, the execution of our 2020 Vision may result in substantial expenses in excess of what is currently forecast. While we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from our 2020 Vision may be offset by unexpected costs or delays incurred in its execution. In connection with our 2020 Vision, we are making significant investments in information technology, but there can be no assurance these investments will have the desired results in improving the delivery of our services.  In addition, our 2020 Vision may cause substantial disruption to our operations and may not have the anticipated positive effects on our relationships with our employees, clients, and suppliers.. Changes to our business systems and processes, including the migration of many of our financial reporting and other processes to our Enterprise Services Center, may not create the operational efficiencies or cost benefits that we expect and could result in unanticipated consequences. In addition, the move to a shared services environment may create risks relating to the processing of transactions and recording of financial information. During the transition period, we could experience a lapse in the operation of internal controls due to turnover, lack of legacy knowledge, or inappropriate training, which could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses.. Our success depends on our ability to gain profitable business despite competitive pressures and on our ability to preserve long-term client relationships.. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price, quality of service, and ability to anticipate and respond to industry changes. A majority of our revenue is derived from projects requiring competitive bids. The low cost of entry in the facility services business results in a very competitive market. We mainly compete with regional and local owner-operated companies that may have more acute vision into local markets and significantly lower labor and overhead costs, providing them with a competitive advantage in those regards. We also compete indirectly with companies that can perform for themselves one or more of the services we provide. Additionally, many of our contracts provide that our clients pay certain costs at specified rates, such as insurance, healthcare costs, salary and salary-related expenses, petroleum, and other costs. We may experience higher operating costs related to changes in federal, state, or local laws and regulations regarding employee benefits, minimum wages, and other entitlements. If actual costs exceed the rates specified in the contracts, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Further, if we are unable to respond adequately to changing technology, we may lose existing clients and fail to win future business opportunities. These strong competitive pressures could inhibit our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices as costs rise, thereby reducing margins.. We primarily provide services pursuant to agreements that are cancelable by either party upon 30 - 90 days' notice. As we generally incur higher initial costs on new contracts until the labor management and facilities operations normalize, our business associated with long-term client relationships is generally more profitable than short-term client relationships. If we lose a significant number of long-term clients, our profitability could be negatively impacted, even if we gain equivalent revenues from new clients.. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for quality integrated facility solutions. As such, adverse publicity stemming from an accident or other incident involving our facility operations related to injury, illness, or death could harm our reputation, result in the cancellation of contracts, and expose us to significant liability.. Our business success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and senior management.. Our future performance depends on the continuing services and contributions of our senior management and on our continued ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Any unplanned turnover in senior management or inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We employ over 130,000 persons and our operations depend on the services of a large and diverse workforce. We must attract, train, and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs. Our ability. 8. to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous internal and external factors, including changes in immigration policy, regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, and competition we face from other companies for these employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our use of subcontractors or joint venture partners to perform work under customer contracts exposes us to liability and financial risk.. We depend on subcontractors or other parties, such as joint venture partners, to perform work in situations in which we are not able to self-perform the work involved. Such arrangements may involve subcontracts or joint venture relationships where we do not have direct control over the performing party. A failure, for whatever reason, by one or more of our subcontractors or joint venture partners to perform, or the alleged negligent performance of, the agreed-upon services may expose us to liability. Although we have in place controls and programs to monitor the work of our subcontractors and our joint venture partners, there can be no assurance that these controls or programs will have the desired effect, and we may incur significant liability as a result of the actions or inactions of one or more of our subcontractors or joint venture partners.. Our international business involves risks different from those we face in the United States that could have an effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We have business operations in jurisdictions outside of the United States, most significantly in the United Kingdom. Our international operations are subject to risks that are different from those we face in the United States, such as the requirement to comply with national and local regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to: the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws and laws respecting privacy; potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; differing local labor laws; credit risk or financial condition of local clients; and local political and social conditions. In addition, the operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars, and those results are affected by movements in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, when we participate in joint ventures that operate outside of the United States where we are not a controlling party, we may have limited control over the joint venture. Any improper actions by our joint venture employees, partners, or agents, including, but not limited to, failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and/or laws relating to human trafficking, could result in civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties, or other consequences, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position as well as on our reputation and ability to conduct business.. Unfavorable developments in our class and representative actions and other lawsuits alleging various claims could cause us to incur substantial liabilities.. Our business involves employing tens of thousands of employees, many of whom work at our clients' facilities. We incur risks relating to our employment of these workers, including, but not limited to: claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; claims related to the employment of undocumented workers or unlicensed personnel; and claims by our employees of discrimination, harassment, or violations of wage and hour requirements. Some or all of these claims may lead to litigation, including class action litigation, and these matters may cause us to incur negative publicity with respect to these alleged problems. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceeding, and our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. These lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause us to incur substantial liabilities that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.. We insure our insurable risks through a combination of insurance and self-insurance and we retain a substantial portion of the risk associated with expected losses under these programs, which exposes us to volatility associated with those risks, including the possibility that changes in estimates of ultimate insurance losses could result in a material charge against our earnings.. We use a combination of insured and self-insurance programs to cover workers' compensation, general liability, automobile liability, property damage, and other insurable risks. We are responsible for claims both within and in excess of our retained limits under our insurance policies, and while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature, or magnitude of. 9. clams for direct or consequential damages. If our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable, our business may be negatively impacted.. The determination of required insurance reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments. We use the results of actuarial studies to estimate insurance rates and insurance reserves for future periods and to adjust reserves, if appropriate, for prior years. Actual experience related to our insurance reserves can cause us to change our estimates for reserves and any such changes may materially impact results, causing significant volatility in our operating results. We have experienced material negative trends in our actuarial estimates and may continue to experience these and other material negative trends in future periods.. Should we be unable to renew our excess, umbrella, or other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Further, to the extent that we self-insure our losses, deterioration in our loss control and/or continuing claim management efforts could increase the overall cost of claims within our retained limits. A material change in our insurance costs due to changes in the frequency of claims, the severity of the claims, the costs of excess/umbrella premiums, or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We have formed a wholly-owned captive insurance company, IFM Assurance Company (\"IFM\"), which we believe will provide us with increased flexibility in the end-to-end management of our insurance program. There can be no assurance that IFM will bring about the intended benefits or that it will provide us with the desired flexibility in the management of our insurance programs, because we may experience unanticipated events that will reduce or eliminate expected benefits, including anticipated savings related to coverage provided by IFM to our subsidiaries.. Our risk management and safety programs may not have the intended effect of reducing our liability for personal injury or property loss.. We attempt to mitigate risks relating to personal injury or property loss through the implementation of company-wide safety and loss control efforts designed to decrease the incidence of accidents or events that might increase our liability. It is expected that any such decrease would also have the effect of reducing our insurance costs for our casualty programs. However, incidents involving personal injury or property loss often are caused by multiple factors, a significant number of which are beyond our control. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our risk management and safety programs will have the desired effect of controlling costs and liability exposure.. Impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter, or more often if impairment indicators exist. We also review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. If the fair value of one of our reporting units is less than its carrying value, or if as a result of a recoverability test we conclude that the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount, we would record an impairment charge related to goodwill or long-lived assets, respectively. The assumptions used to determine impairment require significant judgment and the amount of the impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. Changes in general economic conditions, including changes in energy prices, government regulations, and changing consumer preferences, could reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition.. In certain geographic areas and service lines, our most profitable revenues are related to supplemental services requested by clients outside of the standard service specification. This contract type is commonly used in janitorial services and includes cleanup after tenant moves, construction cleanup, flood cleanup, and snow removal (\"tag work\"). A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in scope of work, including tag work, and depressed prices for our services. Slow domestic and international economic growth or other negative changes in global, national, and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Specifically, adverse economic conditions may result in clients cutting back on discretionary spending. Additionally, since a significant portion of our aviation services and parking revenues are tied to the number of airline passengers, hotel guests, and sports arena attendees, results for these businesses could be adversely affected by curtailment of business, personal travel, and discretionary spending. The use of ride sharing services and car sharing services may lead to a decline in parking demand at airports and in urban areas.. 10. Energy efficiency projects are designed to reduce a client's overall consumption of commodities such as electricity and natural gas. As such, downward fluctuations in commodity prices may reduce clients' demand for our services. We also depend, in part, on federal and state legislation and policies that support energy efficiency projects. If current legislation or policies are amended, eliminated, or not extended beyond their current expiration dates, or if funding for energy incentives is reduced or delayed, it could also adversely affect our ability to obtain new business. In some instances, we offer certain of these clients guaranteed energy savings on installed equipment. In the event those guaranteed savings are not achieved, we may be required to pay liquidated or other damages. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was approved by Congress on December 20, 2017. When signed into law by President Donald J. Trump, this legislation will make significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. Certain of these changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities, primarily in the United States and United Kingdom. If we experience unfavorable results from one or more such tax audits, there could be an adverse effect on our tax rate and therefore on our net income.. We could be subject to cyber-security risks, information technology interruptions, and business continuity risks.. Our information technology systems and those of our third-party providers could become subject to cyber-attacks, hacking, or other intrusions, which could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, such as theft of intellectual property or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information. In addition, to the extent centralized administrative locations are disabled for a long period of time, key business processes, such as accounts payable, information technology, payroll, and general management operations, could be interrupted. Any such operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, negative publicity, or business delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A significant number of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that could expose us to potential liabilities in relationship to our participation in multiemployer pension plans, requirements to make contributions to other benefit plans, and the potential for strikes, work slowdowns or similar activities, and union-organizing drives.. We participate in various multiemployer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements, which provide defined pension benefits and other benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Because of the nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets contributed by an employer to a multiemployer plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that contributing employer. In the event another participating employer in a multiemployer plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers, including us. In the event of the termination of a multiemployer pension plan or a withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, under applicable law we could incur material liabilities. We further discuss our participation in multiemployer pension and postretirement plans in Note 13, \"Employee Benefit Plans,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the terms of collective bargaining agreements require us to contribute to health and welfare plans that require us to have appropriate systems in place to track contributions. The failure to make a contribution as a result of a systems failure could have a negative impact on our financial position.. At October 31, 2017, approximately 32% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during 2018. In addition, at any given time we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues that could lead to a strike, work slowdown, or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we are unionized but competitors are not unionized, we could lose clients to such competitors. A strike, work slowdown, or other job action could disrupt our services, resulting in reduced revenues or contract cancellations.. 11. Moreover, negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be negatively impacted, which could harm our operating results, investors' perceptions of our Company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation. We have acquired entities that did not have any publicly traded debt or equity and therefore were not required to conform to the rules and regulations of the SEC, especially as it relates to internal control structure. As such, upon acquisition by us, such entities may not have in place all the necessary controls as required by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The integration of acquired entities into our internal control over financial reporting has required and will continue to require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and will increase our compliance costs. We are required to include our assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting of entities we acquire in our overall assessment. We plan to complete the evaluation and integration of internal controls over financial reporting and report our assessment within the required time frame. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to accurately report our financial results, the market's perception of our business, and our stock price.. Our business may be negatively impacted by adverse weather conditions.. Weather conditions such as snow storms, heavy flooding, hurricanes, and other fluctuations in temperatures can negatively impact portions of our business. Within our Technical Solutions segment, cooler than normal temperatures in the summer could reduce the need for servicing of air conditioning units, resulting in reduced revenues and profitability. Within Parking and Aviation services, snow can lead to reduced travel activity, as well as increases in certain costs, both of which negatively affect gross profit. On the other hand, the absence of snow during the winter could cause us to experience reduced revenues in our B&I segment, as many of our contracts specify additional payments for snow-related services.. Catastrophic events, disasters, and terrorist attacks could disrupt our services.. Catastrophic events, disasters, and acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues, property damage, or economic dislocations throughout the country. These events may increase the volatility of financial results due to unforeseen costs with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients.. Actions of activist investors could disrupt our business.. Public companies have been the target of activist investors. In the event that a third party, such as an activist investor, proposes to change our governance policies, board of directors, or other aspects of our operations, our review and consideration of such proposals may create a significant distraction for our management and employees. This could negatively impact our ability to execute our 2020 Vision and may require our management to expend significant time and resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainties with respect to our financial position and operations and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees."
