[1] "Item  1A. Risk Factors. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks should be carefully considered before making an investment decision regarding us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face and there may be additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact. If any of the following risks actually occurred, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors, including factors outside our control, may result in significant decreases in the price of our common stock.. The stock markets experience volatility, in some cases unrelated to operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to operate our facilities as profitably as we have in the past or as our investors expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. In addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. These factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other healthcare companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets or other developments affecting the healthcare industry.. 18. Table of Contents. An incident involving one or more of our patients or the failure by one or more of our facilities to provide appropriate care could result in increased regulatory burdens, governmental investigations, negative publicity and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Because the patients we treat suffer from severe mental health and chemical dependency disorders, patient incidents, including deaths, assaults and elopements, occur from time to time. If one or more of our facilities experiences an adverse patient incident or is found to have failed to provide appropriate patient care, an admissions hold, loss of accreditation, license revocation or other adverse regulatory action could be taken against us. Any such patient incident or adverse regulatory action could result in governmental investigations, judgments or fines and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have been and could become the subject of negative publicity or unfavorable media attention, whether warranted or unwarranted, that could have a significant, adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock or adversely impact our reputation and how our referral sources and payors view us.. We have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits.. Healthcare companies in both the U.S. and the U.K. are subject to numerous investigations by various governmental agencies. Certain of our facilities have received, and other facilities may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to investigation by, governmental agencies. If we incur significant costs responding to or resolving these or future inquiries or investigations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Further, under the False Claims Act, private parties are permitted to bring qui tam or \"whistleblower\" lawsuits against companies that submit false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments from, the government. Because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. We may also be subject to substantial reputational harm as a result of the public announcement of any investigation into such claims.. Our revenue and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and third-party payors.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from government healthcare programs. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 38% of our revenue from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and 32% of our revenue from public funded sources in the U.K. (including the NHS, CCGs and Local Authorities). See \" -  Structural shifts in the U.K. behavioral healthcare market may adversely affect us\" for further details on U.K. funding risks to which we are subject.. Government payors in the U.S., such as Medicaid, generally reimburse us on a fee-for-service basis based on predetermined reimbursement rate schedules. As a result, we are limited in the amount we can record as revenue for our services from these government programs, and if we have a cost increase, we typically will not be able to recover this increase. In addition, the federal government and many state governments, are operating under significant budgetary pressures, and they may seek to reduce payments under their Medicaid programs for services such as those we provide. Government payors also tend to pay on a slower schedule. In addition to limiting the amounts they will pay for the services we provide their members, government payors may, among other things, impose prior authorization and concurrent utilization review programs that may further limit the services for which they will pay and shift patients to lower levels of care and reimbursement. Therefore, if governmental entities reduce the amounts they will pay for our services, or if they elect not to continue paying for such services altogether, or if a total or partial repeal of PPACA results in significant contraction of the number of individuals covered by state Medicaid programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if governmental entities slow their payment cycles further, our cash flow from operations could be negatively affected.. Commercial payors such as managed care organizations, private health insurance programs and labor unions generally reimburse us for the services rendered to insured patients based upon contractually determined rates. These commercial payors are under significant pressure to control healthcare costs. In addition to limiting the amounts they will pay for the services we provide their members, commercial payors may, among other things, impose prior authorization and concurrent utilization review programs that may further limit the services for which they will pay and shift patients to lower levels of care and reimbursement. These actions may reduce the amount of revenue we derive from commercial payors.. Changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. Payments from federal and state government healthcare programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. In addition, since most states operate with balanced budgets and since the Medicaid program is often a state's largest program, some states can be expected to enact or consider enacting legislation formulated to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. Furthermore, the potential repeal, replacement or modification of PPACA, may negatively affect the availability of taxpayer funds for Medicare and Medicaid programs. If the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the financial condition and operating results of our facilities in the U.S. Management expects third-party payors to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our financing arrangements.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.2 billion of total debt (net of debt issuance costs, discounts and premiums of $50.4 million), which included approximately $1.8 billion of debt under our Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility (including approximately $380.0 million of Senior Secured Term A Loans and approximately $1.4 billion of Senior Secured Term B Loans), $150.0 million of debt under our 6.125% Senior Notes (the \"6.125% Senior Notes\"), $300.0 million of debt under our 5.125% Senior Notes (the \"5.125% Senior Notes\"), $650.0 million of debt under our 5.625% Senior Notes, $390.0 million of debt under our 6.500% Senior Notes and $21.9 million of Lee County (Florida) Industrial Development Authority Healthcare Facilities Revenue Bonds, Series 2010 with stated interest rates of 9.0% and 9.5% (the \"9.0% and 9.5% Revenue Bonds\"). See \"Item 1. Business - Financing Transactions\" for additional details regarding our outstanding indebtedness.. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could:. <U+0095>   increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other financial obligations;. <U+0095>   restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+0095>   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt (including scheduled repayments on our outstanding term loan borrowings under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility), thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>   expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest on the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility is imposed at variable rates;. <U+0095>   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such debt;. <U+0095>   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. <U+0095>   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. <U+0095>   limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and. <U+0095>   limit our ability to pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions.. In addition, the terms of our financing arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts, including the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes.. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to service our debt depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures and to maintain sufficient working capital will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before the maturity thereof, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that the terms of that debt will allow any of the above alternative measures or that these measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to repay or refinance our debt on favorable terms, it could significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our outstanding debt. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.. 20. Table of Contents. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants, which may restrict our business and financing activities.. Our financing arrangements impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. <U+0095>   incur or guarantee additional debt and issue certain preferred stock;. <U+0095>   pay dividends on our common stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our equity interests or subordinated debt;. <U+0095>   transfer or sell our assets;. <U+0095>   make certain payments or investments;. <U+0095>   make capital expenditures;. <U+0095>   create certain liens on assets;. <U+0095>   create restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;. <U+0095>   engage in certain transactions with our affiliates; and. <U+0095>   merge or consolidate with other companies.. The Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility also requires us to meet certain financial ratios, including a fixed charge coverage ratio and a consolidated leverage ratio. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources  - Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility\". The restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that management believes would be in the best interests of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will largely depend on the pricing of our products and services, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to our financing arrangements if for any reason we are unable to comply with our financial covenants. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes or under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility, which could result in an acceleration of our debt.. Despite our current debt level, we may incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial debt.. We may incur substantial additional debt, including additional notes and other debt, in the future. Although the indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes and our Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of debt that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would intensify and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations.. If we default on our obligations to pay our debt, we may not be able to make payments on our financing arrangements.. Any default under the agreements governing our debt, including a default under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility or the indentures governing our Senior Notes, and the remedies sought by the holders of such debt, could adversely affect our ability to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our debt (including the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes), we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such debt. In the event of such default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, the lenders under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments or cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, or we could be forced to apply all available cash flows to repay such debt, and, in any such case, we could ultimately be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Because the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the agreement governing the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility have customary cross-default provisions, if the debt under the Senior Notes or the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or refinance the amounts due.. 21. Table of Contents. Expanding our international operations poses additional risks to our business.. Our business or financial performance may be adversely affected due to the risks of operating internationally, including but not limited to the following: economic and political instability, failure to comply with foreign laws and regulations and adverse changes in the health care policy of the U.K. (including decreases in funding for the services provided by our U.K. facilities), adverse changes in law and regulations affecting our operations in the U.K., difficulties and costs of staffing and managing our operations in the U.K. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to disruption of our business, significant expenditures and/or damages to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects.. As a company based outside of the U.K., we need to take certain actions to be more easily accepted in the U.K. For example, we may need to engage in a public relations campaign to emphasize service quality and company philosophy, preserve local management continuity and business practices and be transparent in our dealings with local governments and taxing authorities. Such efforts require significant time and effort on the part of our management team. Our results of operation could suffer if these efforts are not successful.. With significant operations in the U.K., our business and operations may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the U.K.. The global financial markets continue to experience significant volatility as a result of, among other things, economic and political instability in the wake of the referendum in the U.K. on June 23, 2016, in which the voters approved an exit from the European Union, or Brexit. Following the vote on Brexit, stock markets worldwide experienced significant declines and certain currency exchange rates fluctuated substantially, and the outlook for the global economy in 2018 and beyond remains uncertain as negotiations commence to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the European Union. Such global market instability may hinder future economic growth, which could adversely affect our assets, business, cash flow, condition (financial or otherwise), liquidity, prospects and results of operations.. Our facilities face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and reduce our profitability.. Our operations depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, including our addiction counselors, therapists, nurses, pharmacists, licensed counselors, clinical technicians, and mental health technicians, as well as our psychiatrists and other professionals. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management, program directors, physicians (including psychiatrists) and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of our business, financial condition or results of operations.. With respect to our facilities in the U.K., we compete with various providers, including the NHS, staffing agencies and other employers, in attracting and retaining qualified management, medical, nursing, care and teaching personnel. Competition for such employees is growing and could lead to increases in our personnel and recruiting costs, which would in turn adversely impact our operating costs and margins. Competitors, in particular the NHS, may offer more attractive wages, pension plans or other benefits than us and we may not be able to provide similar offerings to our prospective employees as a result of cost or other reasons.. A shortage of nurses, qualified addiction counselors, and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers, particularly for our facilities in the U.K. Such shortages may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses, qualified addiction counselors, and other medical support personnel or require us to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. The use of temporary or contract personnel could also heighten the risk one of our facilities experiences an adverse patient incident. Further, because we generally recruit our personnel from the local area where the relevant facility is located, the availability in certain areas of suitably qualified personnel can be limited, particularly care home management, qualified teaching personnel and nurses. In addition, certain of our facilities are required to maintain specified staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the services provided by these facilities, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenue. Certain of our treatment facilities are located in remote geographical areas, far from population centers, which increases this risk.. We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure either to recruit and retain qualified management, psychiatrists, therapists, counselors, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to a variety of operational and financial risks.. A principal element of our business strategy is to grow by acquiring other companies and assets in the behavioral healthcare industry. Growth, especially rapid growth, through acquisitions exposes us to a variety of operational and financial risks. We summarize the most significant of these risks below.. Integration risks. We must integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations. This process includes the integration of the various components of our business and of the businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future, including the following:. <U+0095>   additional psychiatrists, other physicians and employees who are not familiar with our operations;. <U+0095>   patients who may elect to switch to another behavioral healthcare provider;. <U+0095>   regulatory compliance programs; and. <U+0095>   disparate operating, information and record keeping systems and technology platforms.. Integrating a new facility could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel from day-to-day operations.. We may not be able to successfully combine the operations of acquired facilities with our operations, and even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. The integration of acquisitions with our operations requires significant attention from management, may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects and may impose challenges on the combined business including, but not limited to, consistencies in business standards, procedures, policies, business cultures and internal controls and compliance. Certain acquisitions involve a capital outlay, and the return that we achieve on any capital invested may be less than the return that we would achieve on our other projects or investments. If we fail to complete the integration of acquired facilities, we may never fully realize the potential benefits of the related acquisitions.. Successful integration depends on the ability to effect any required changes in operations or personnel, which may entail unforeseen liabilities. The integration of acquired businesses may expose us to certain risks, including the following: difficulty in integrating these businesses in a cost-effective manner, including the establishment of effective management information and financial control systems; unforeseen legal, regulatory, contractual, employment or other issues arising out of the combination; combining corporate cultures; maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; potential disruptions to our on-going business caused by our senior management's focus on integrating these businesses; and performance of the combined assets not meeting our expectations or plans. A failure to properly integrate these businesses could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects.. Benefits may not materialize. When evaluating potential acquisition targets, we identify potential synergies and cost savings that we expect to realize upon the successful completion of the acquisition and the integration of the related operations. We may, however, be unable to achieve or may otherwise never realize the expected benefits. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from potential cost savings and revenue improvement opportunities is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, such as changes to government regulation governing or otherwise impacting the behavioral healthcare industry, reductions in reimbursement rates from third-party payors, reductions in service levels under our contracts, operating difficulties, client preferences, changes in competition and general economic or industry conditions. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these improvements or if we do not achieve our expected results, it may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Assumptions of unknown liabilities. Facilities that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for uncertain tax positions, liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations and liabilities for unresolved litigation or regulatory reviews. Although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such facilities, the purchase agreement with Priory contained minimal representations and warranties about the entities and business that we acquired. In addition, we have no indemnification rights against the sellers under the Priory purchase agreement and all of the purchase price consideration was paid at closing of the Priory acquisition. Therefore, we may incur material liabilities for the past activities of acquired entities and facilities. Even in those acquisitions in which we have such rights, we may experience difficulty enforcing the sellers' obligations, or we may incur material liabilities for the past activities of acquired facilities. Such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility's reputation could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Competing for acquisitions. We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. As a result, we may pay more to acquire a target business or may agree to less favorable deal terms than we would have otherwise. Our principal competitors for acquisitions have included Universal Health Services and private equity firms. Also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. Further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for an acquired facility, the acquired facility's results of operations, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial results, result in dilution to our stockholders, result in increased fixed obligations or impede our ability to manage our operations. There can be no assurances that we will be able to acquire facilities at historical or expected rates or on favorable terms.. Managing growth. Some of the facilities we have acquired or may acquire in the future may have had significantly lower operating margins prior to the time of our acquisition or may have had operating losses prior to such acquisition. If we fail to improve the operating margins of the facilities we acquire, operate such facilities profitably or effectively integrate the operations of the acquired facilities, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Joint ventures may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities.. As part of our growth strategy, we have completed, or have announced plans to complete, a number of joint ventures and strategic alliances. These joint ventures may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses and expenses, and compliance risks that could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, there is often a significant delay between our formation of a joint venture and the time that a de novo facility can be constructed and have a positive financial impact on our results of operations.. The nature of a joint venture requires us to consult with and share certain decision-making powers with unaffiliated third parties, some of which may be not-for-profit healthcare systems. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business or strategic plans. In that case, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of financial commitment to the joint venture. Moreover, differences in economic or business interests or goals among joint venture participants could result in delayed decisions, failures to agree on major issues and even litigation. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business or strategic plans, or if our joint venture partners take actions contrary to our policies, objectives or the best interests of the joint venture, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be negatively impacted. In addition, our relationships with not-for-profit healthcare systems and the joint venture agreements that govern these relationships are intended to be structured to comply with current revenue rulings published by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), as well as case law relevant to joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit healthcare entities. Material changes in these authorities could adversely affect our relationships with not-for-profit healthcare systems and related joint venture arrangements.. The majority of our revenue from our operations in the U.K. is not guaranteed and is being generated either from spot purchasing or under framework agreements where no volume commitments are given. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can achieve any fee rate increases in the future or will not suffer any fee rate decreases.. Any decline in demand for our services in the U.K. from publicly funded entities or private payers or any failure by us to extend current agreements or enter into alternative agreements on comparable terms with such entities could have an adverse effect on our average daily census (\"ADC\"), which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, there can be no assurances that we will be able to implement fee rate increases, which are a driver of our revenue from our operations, or not suffer from any decline in fee rates in the future. Should the effect of any increase in annual wages or other operating costs of the business exceed the effect of any increase in our fee rates or should our fee rates suffer a decline, we would have to absorb any costs that cannot be offset by our fees, which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 24. Table of Contents. Publicly funded entities. A significant portion of our services funded by U.K. publicly funded entities are commissioned on a spot-purchase basis at prices determined by prevailing market conditions. It is generally a matter for the relevant commissioner to determine whether to use our services, and there is no guarantee that previous spot market purchasing activity by a commissioner will continue in the future or at all. We also have a number of fixed-term framework agreements which grant us preferred provider status with Local Authorities or the NHS typically lasting between one to three years. While we and the commissioners typically agree on pricing for 12 months, at times with discounts related to the number of beds purchased, the commissioners do not make minimum purchasing commitments under such agreements. As such, commissioners may decide to place existing and new service users with our competitors, including their own in-house service providers, on short notice. We also have a small number of fixed-period block contracts, where a set number of beds are paid for at a discount to spot prices regardless of occupancy. While we may have flexibility to increase spot rates for new admissions, any fee increases under our block contracts are restricted by the terms and conditions of those block contracts.. The rates that we charge publicly-funded entities for our services are negotiated individually with commissioners and historically have been subject to annual review on April 1 of each year, with customary adjustments based on the Retail Prices Index (\"RPI\"), Consumer Price Index (\"CPI\") or sector specific costs indices. However, the current economic climate and the U.K. government's overriding economic policy to reduce the budget deficit means that, in the short term at least, commissioners are resistant to fee increases, often expecting that efficiency savings be made to offset inflationary cost increases in accordance with national policy. As a result, there can be no assurance that we can maintain the payment terms of our arrangements with publicly funded entities, including with respect to the timing of payments.. Further, following expiration of contracts there can be no assurance that negotiations with commissioners will result in the extension or renewal of existing arrangements or the entering into of alternative arrangements for those services. Commissioners may also require that following the expiration date of current agreements with us, they contract with us on a spot basis rather than through a block arrangement or reduce the number of beds subject to block arrangements. Even if we are successful in extending current agreements or in entering into alternative arrangements, the duration of such extensions or arrangements is uncertain, and we may be unsuccessful in implementing rate increases under such agreements.. In addition, changing commissioning structures and practices, such as those under the Health and Social Care Act 2012, involve tendering processes that could result in failing to remain or become an approved provider. There are currently a number of commissioning initiatives involving public and independent providers that could change the distribution of in-patient beds in the U.K. Certain services that were historically commissioned centrally by NHS England are moving towards more local commissioning to better meet patient needs and to enhance local care pathways. These initiatives could cause our ADC to decrease in areas where there is surplus capacity or more focus on community-based treatment. Further, if we are not invited to participate in initiatives or do not meet the local commissioning standards, our ADC could be adversely affected.. Private payers. Although we have agreements in place with a number of private medical insurance (\"PMI\") plans where pricing is generally agreed annually, there is no obligation on the PMI plans to refer its members to us or to pay for its members to use our services. Further, we may not be able to renew our existing arrangements with PMI plans on terms comparable to what it has achieved in the past. Fee rates for self-paying individuals are adjusted on January 1 of each year depending on capacity and demand in the relevant service markets. Fees paid or reimbursed by PMI plans are typically adjusted in line with specific contract terms and are generally based on RPI and specific wage indices. Demand in both the PMI market and the self-pay is dependent on economic conditions, which impacts the number of people with sufficient income or capital to pay for insurance coverage or treatment themselves.. Structural shifts in the U.K. behavioral healthcare market may adversely affect us.. Publicly funded entities. Payments for our services by publicly funded entities in the U.K., particularly the NHS and Local Authorities, account for the vast majority of our U.K. revenue. We expect publicly funded entities in the U.K. to continue to generate the significant majority of our revenue from our operations in the U.K. Budget constraints, public spending cuts or other financial pressures could cause such publicly funded entities to spend less money on the type of services that we provide, or political or U.K. government policy changes could mean that fewer of such services are purchased by publicly funded entities from independent sector providers in favor of protecting NHS and Local Authority in-house services.. While the outsourcing by the NHS in England of healthcare services has been increasing in recent years, the need of the NHS in England to achieve substantial efficiency savings is likely to result in continued funding pressure in the pricing of such services. For instance, Monitor (now part of NHS Improvement), the NHS economic regulator, has, under NHS Tariff Rules, determined national prices across a range of NHS services and has issued extensive guidance on how they are to be applied, including provision for local variations to national tariffs, subject to approval by Monitor. While none of our services are currently subject to national prices, the future application of any national prices regime upon our services could have a material adverse impact on our revenue.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, the allocation of funding responsibility for adult social care may be subject to change at some time in the future under the provisions of the Care Act 2014 under which individuals identified as being required to pay for their own care under the relevant means test will be required to take funding responsibility up to a specified lifetime monetary cap, with Local Authorities responsible for the remainder of expenses for personal care, excluding \"daily living\" expenses. This would potentially place greater funding responsibility with public sector bodies over the longer term, which would potentially exacerbate the current funding challenges faced by such bodies.. Private payers. Payments for our services in the U.K. by PMI plans account for a small portion of our U.K. revenue. In addition, payments for our services in the U.K. by self-pay patients, who purchase treatment on a spot basis account for a small portion of our U.K. revenue. Many of the patients who use our acute healthcare services in the U.K. do so because their PMI plan recognizes our facilities as being an appropriate provider of the psychiatric treatment services required by the patient. Our ability to attract patients who are funded by PMI plans could be adversely impacted if one or more PMI plans withdraws recognition status from our facilities, for example, as a result of a change in a PMI plan's recognition status standards. In addition, many PMI plans have been changing the terms of their policies and shortening the length of time they will cover a stay at one of our U.K. facilities.. There can be no assurance that the entities or individuals who fund our services will not reduce or cease spending on the types of services that we provide or that alternative service or funding models for mental healthcare, learning disabilities care, specialist education or elderly care will not emerge. Any such funding or structural change in the markets where we operate could have a material adverse effect on our ADC, which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are reliant upon maintaining strong relationships with commissioners employed by publicly funded entities, psychiatric and other medical consultants, and any reorganization of such publicly funded entities may result in the loss of those relationships.. The relationships that we have with commissioners is a key driver of referrals for our facilities in the U.K. Referrals to our U.K. business by the NHS accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Should there be a major reorganization of publicly funded entities, such as the NHS reorganization announced in 2010 and implemented between 2012 and 2013, we may need to rebuild such relationships which could result in a decrease in the number of referrals made to our facilities, which could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Any actual or perceived deterioration in service quality, any serious incidents at our facilities or any other event that could cause commissioners to prefer other service providers over us could also adversely impact referrals from commissioners. Further, our business also depends, in part, on psychiatric and other medical consultants referring their patients to us for treatment either as in-patients or day patients. From time to time, consultants may decide to relocate or reposition their practices, retire or refer patients elsewhere with the result that there is a decrease in the number of referrals made to our facilities. A deterioration in relationships with commissioners or consultants or the decision by one or more commissioners or consultants to refer patients to our competitors or to stop all referrals would have an adverse effect on the ADC at our facilities in the U.K., which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating costs are subject to increases, including due to statutorily mandated increases in the wages and salaries of our staff.. The most significant operating expense for our facilities is wage costs, which represent the staff costs incurred in providing our services and running our facilities, and which are primarily driven by the number of employees and pay rates. The number of employees employed by us is primarily linked to the number of facilities we operate and the number of individuals cared for by us. While we can reduce the number of employees should occupancy rates decrease at our facilities, there is a limit on the extent to which this can be done without impacting quality of our services.. Furthermore, in April 2016, a new \"National Living Wage\" was introduced across the U.K. which was increased in April 2017 and is scheduled to increase again in April 2018 with further annual increases expected until at least 2020. These changes to the National Living Wage have and will increase our operating costs and, unless we can increase revenue or reduce other costs, will reduce our margins.. In the U.K., there has been an increase in enforcement action by HMRC against employers who do not pay the NMW, particularly for fixed allowance payments for sleep-in shifts in the care sector. The industry standard practice has been to pay a fixed allowance to employees who sleep at sites at night with a \"top-up\" if an employee is woken and provides care to residents during the. 26. Table of Contents. night. Our U.K. facilities have elected to join the SCCS established by HMRC to mitigate our exposure to potential back-pay liability. Nevertheless, we may be subject to (i) increased payments to employees for sleep-in shifts on an on-going basis; (ii) payments of up to 6 years of arrears to employees or former employees who have carried out sleep-in shifts at our U.K. facilities; and (iii) payments of interest and penalties to HMRC, all of which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We also have a number of recurring costs including insurance, utilities and rental costs, and may face increases to other recurring costs such as regulatory compliance costs. There can be no assurance that any of our recurring costs will not grow at a faster rate than our revenue. As a result, any increase in our operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We care for a large number of vulnerable individuals with complex needs and any care quality deficiencies could adversely impact our brand, reputation and ability to market our services effectively.. Our future growth will partly depend on our ability to maintain our reputation for providing quality patient care and, through successful sales and marketing activities, increased demand for our services. Factors such as health and safety incidents, problems at our facilities, regulatory enforcement actions, negative press or general customer dissatisfaction could lead to deterioration in the level of our quality ratings or the public perception of the quality of our services (including as a result of negative publicity about our industry generally), which in turn could lead to a loss of patient placements, referrals and self-pay patients or service users. Any impairment of our reputation, loss of goodwill or damage to the value of our brand name could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of our service users have complex medical conditions or special needs, are vulnerable and often require a substantial level of care and supervision. There is a risk that one or more service users could be harmed by one or more of our employees, either intentionally, through negligence or by accident. Further, individuals cared for by us have in the past engaged, and may in the future engage, in behavior that results in harm to themselves, our employees or to one or more other individuals, including members of the public. A serious incident involving harm to one or more service users or other individuals could result in negative publicity. Such negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our brand, reputation and ADC, which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the damage to our reputation or to the reputation of the relevant facility from any such incident could be exacerbated by any failure on our part to respond effectively to such incident.. We are and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings based on negligence or breach of a contractual or statutory duty from service users or their family members or from employees or former employees.. From time to time, we are subject to complaints and claims from service users and their family members alleging professional negligence, medical malpractice or mistreatment. We are also subject to claims for unlawful detention from time to time when patients allege they should not have been detained under the Mental Health Act or where the appropriate procedures were not correctly followed.. Similarly, there may be substantial claims from employees in respect of personal injuries sustained in the performance of their duties, particularly in respect of incidents involving patients detained under the Mental Health Act and where future employment prospects are impaired. Current or former employees may also make claims against us in relation to breaches of employment legislation.. We may also be involved in coroner's inquests (or the Scottish equivalent) where there is a fatality at one of our facilities in the U.K. resulting in an adverse coroner's verdict or civil claims by individuals or criminal prosecutions by regulatory authorities. Any fines imposed by the courts are likely to be substantial in view of the Sentencing Council guidelines published in November 2015, which materially increase fines for corporate manslaughter and certain health and safety offenses. There may also be safeguarding incidents at our facilities which, depending on the circumstances, may result in custodial sentences or other criminal sanctions for the member of staff involved.. The incurrence of any legal fees, damage awards or other fines as summarized above as well as any impact on our brand or reputation as a result of being involved in any legal proceedings are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 27. Table of Contents. We handle sensitive personal data which are protected by numerous U.S. and U.K. laws in the ordinary course of business and any failure to maintain the confidentiality of such data could result in legal liability and reputational harm.. We process and store sensitive personal data as part of our business. In the event of a security breach, sensitive personal data could become public. We are currently not aware of any material incidences of potential data breach; however, there can be no assurance that such breaches will not arise in future. Although we have in place policies and procedures to prevent such breaches, breaches could occur either as a result of a breach by us or as a result of a breach by a third party to whom we have provided sensitive personal data, and as a result, we could face liability under data protection laws.. In addition to U.S. data protection laws, we are subject to similar, and in some cases more restrictive, U.K. data protection laws. For example, the GDPR will provide heightened data protection requirements once effective in May 2018, including more stringent consent requirements, data protection and security measures and requirements to appoint a data protection officer. While we are taking appropriate steps to ensure compliance with U.K. data protection laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that our facilities will not be subject to data breaches which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Liability under data protection laws may result in sanctions, including substantial fines and/or may cause us to suffer damage to our brand and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against us or our facilities.. We are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. All professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations and in some cases, an insurance company may defend us subject to a reservation of rights. Management believes that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our facilities. While we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. If such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, insurance premiums have increased year over year and insurance coverage may not be available at a reasonable cost, especially given the significant increase in insurance premiums generally experienced in the healthcare industry.. We carry a large self-insured retention and may be responsible for significant amounts not covered by insurance. In addition, our insurance may be inadequate, premiums may increase and, if there is a significant deterioration in our claims experience, insurance may not be available on acceptable terms.. We maintain liability insurance intended to cover service user, third-party and employee personal injury claims. Due to the structure of our insurance program under which we carry a large self-insured retention, there may be substantial claims in respect of which the liability for damages and costs falls to us before being met by any insurance underwriter. There may also be claims in excess of our insurance coverage or claims which are not covered by our insurance due to other policy limitations or exclusions or where we have failed to comply with the terms of the policy. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or without substantial premium increases or at all, particularly if there is a deterioration in our claim experience history. A successful claim against us not covered by or in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. We have significant U.K. operations. Accordingly, we translate revenue and other results denominated in a foreign currency into U.S. dollars (\"USD\") for our consolidated financial statements. During periods of a strengthening USD or weakening British pound (\"GBP\"), our reported international revenue and expenses could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer USD. Following the Brexit vote and subsequent developments, the GBP dropped to its lowest level against the USD in more than 30 years. If the exchange rate further declines, our results of operations will be negatively impacted in future periods.. In all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into USD.. We incur significant transaction related costs in connection with acquisitions.. We incur substantial costs in connection with acquisitions, including transaction-related expenses. In addition, we may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale, retain key employees, and to formulate and execute integration plans. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of acquired businesses, should allow us to more than offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. 28. Table of Contents. Our ability to grow our business through organic expansion either by developing new facilities or by modifying existing facilities is dependent upon many factors.. Our ability to grow our business through organic expansion is dependent on capacity and occupancy at our facilities. Should our facilities reach maximum occupancy, we may need to implement other growth strategies either by developing new facilities or by modifying existing facilities.. Our facilities typically need to be purpose-designed in order to enable the type and quality of service that we provide. Consequently, we must either develop sites to create facilities or purchase or lease existing facilities, which may require substantial modification. We must be able to identify suitable sites and there is no guarantee that such sites will be available at all, or at an economically viable cost or in areas of sufficient demand for our services. The subsequent successful development and construction of a new facility is contingent upon, among other things, negotiation of construction contracts, regulatory permits and planning consents and satisfactory completion of construction. Similarly, our ability to expand existing facilities is also dependent upon various factors, including identification of appropriate expansion projects, permitting, licensure, financing, integration into our relationships with payors and referral sources, and margin pressure as new facilities are filled with patients.. Delays caused by difficulties in respect of any of the above factors may lead to cost overruns and longer periods before a return is generated on an investment, if at all. We may incur significant capital expenditure but due to a regulatory, planning or other reason, may find that we are prevented from opening a new facility or modifying an existing facility. Moreover, even when incurring such development capital expenditure, there is no guarantee that we can fill beds when they become available. Upon operational commencement of a new facility, we typically expect that it will take approximately 12-18 months to reach our targeted occupancy level. Any delays or stoppages in our projects, the unsatisfactory completion or construction of such projects or the failure of such projects to increase our occupancy levels could have a material adverse effect on our ADC, which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may fail to deal with clinical waste in accordance with applicable regulations or otherwise be in breach of relevant medical, health and safety or environmental laws and regulations.. As part of our normal business activities, we produce and store clinical waste which may produce effects harmful to the environment or human health. The storage and transportation of such waste is strictly regulated. Our waste disposal services are outsourced and should the relevant service provider fail to comply with relevant regulations, we could face sanctions or fines which could adversely affect our brand, reputation, business or financial condition. Health and safety risks are inherent in the services that we provide and are constantly present in our facilities, primarily in respect of food and water quality, as well as fire safety and the risk that service users may cause harm to themselves, other service users or employees. From time to time, we have experienced, like other providers of similar services, undesirable health and safety incidents. Some of our activities are particularly exposed to significant medical risks relating to the transmission of infections or the prescription and administration of drugs for residents and patients. If any of the above medical or health and safety risks were to materialize, we may be held liable, fined and any registration certificate could be suspended or withdrawn for failure to comply with applicable regulations, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The value of our real estate assets will be subject to fluctuations in the U.K. real estate market.. We hold a large portfolio of real estate assets, including significant real estate assets in the U.K. The value of our U.K. property portfolio is subject to, among other things, the conditions of the real estate market in the U.K. The average values of real estate in the U.K., as in other European countries, experienced sharp declines from 2007 as a result of the credit crisis, economic recession and reduced confidence in global financial markets. Although real estate asset values have recovered and stabilized in recent years in the U.K., there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or be sustainable. Real estate asset values could decline substantially, particularly if the U.K. economy or the Eurozone economy as a whole were to suffer a further recession or debt crisis, and could result in declines in the carrying values of our real estate assets (and the value at which we could dispose of such assets). Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be disrupted if our information systems fail or if our databases are destroyed or damaged.. Our information technology platform supports, among other things, management control of patient administration, billing and financial information and reporting processes. For example, patients in our U.K. facilities and some of our U.S. facilities have an Electronic Patient Record that allows our caregivers and nurses to see all information about a patient's care and treatment. Although. 29. Table of Contents. we have taken measures to mitigate potential information technology security risks and have information technology continuity plans across our business intended to minimize the impact of information technology failures, there can be no assurance that such measures and plans will be effective. Any failure in or breach of our information technology systems could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to volatility in the global capital and credit markets as well as significant developments in macroeconomic and political conditions that are out of our control.. Our business can be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general macroeconomic conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, geopolitical conditions and other general political and economic developments. These conditions and developments may continue to put pressure on the economy in the U.K., which could have a negative effect on our business. There may be a shortage of liquidity and credit in the U.K. or worldwide and this can be exacerbated by adverse developments in global or national political and/or macroeconomic conditions. In particular, we have historically financed the development of new facilities and the modification of our existing facilities through a variety of sources, including our own cash reserves and debt financing. While we intend to seek to finance new and existing developments from similar sources in the future, there may be insufficient cash reserves to fund the budgeted capital expenditure and market conditions and other factors may prevent us from obtaining debt financing on appropriate terms or at all. In addition, market conditions may limit the number of financial institutions that are willing to provide financing to landlords with whom we wish to contract to build homes for learning disability services, new schools or new mental health facilities which can then be made available to us under a long-term operating lease. If conditions in the U.K. or the global economy remain uncertain or weaken further, this could materially adversely impact our ADC, which would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with the international and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. federal laws and regulations established by the Office of Foreign Asset Control, local laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other local laws which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached by us, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements, or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to conduct business in the U.K. and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these challenges.. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Any adverse development in the tax laws of such jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our effective tax rate could change materially as a result of certain changes in our mix of U.S. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws.. We are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions as a result of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. Adverse developments in these tax laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction may disagree with the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, which, if successfully challenged by such tax authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Certain changes in the mix of our earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our overall effective tax rate. In addition, the Tax Act makes significant changes to the rules applicable to the taxation of corporations. The Company is currently in the process of analyzing the effects of the Tax Act on the Company. It is uncertain at this time whether the application of these new rules will have any material and adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. 30. Table of Contents. A worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the geographies in which we operate could materially affect our business and future results of operations.. During periods of high unemployment, governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. These budget deficits at the federal, state and local levels have decreased, and may continue to decrease, spending for health and human service programs, including Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., which are significant payor sources for our facilities. In periods of high unemployment, we also face the risk of potential declines in the population covered under private insurance, patient decisions to postpone or decide against receiving behavioral healthcare services, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations we serve and further difficulties in collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables.. A sizable portion of our revenue from certain residential recovery, eating disorder facilities, comprehensive treatment centers and youth programs is from self-payors. Accordingly, a sustained downturn in the U.S. economy could restrain the ability of our patients and the families of our students to pay for services.. Furthermore, the availability of liquidity and capital resources to fund the continuation and expansion of many business operations worldwide has been limited in recent years. Our ability to access the capital markets on acceptable terms may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could have a negative impact on our growth plans, our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability to refinance existing debt (including debt under our Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes). A sustained economic downturn or other economic conditions could also adversely affect the counterparties to our agreements, including the lenders under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Facility, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us.. Our reimbursement may be adversely affected by the repeal, replacement or modification of PPACA.. On January 20, 2017, Donald Trump became President of the United States. During the 2016 election cycle, Republicans also assumed control of both the United States Senate and House of Representatives. Shortly after his inauguration, President Trump issued an executive order that, among other things, stated that it was the intent of his administration to repeal PPACA. Several bills have been introduced and voted upon in the House of Representatives and United States Senate that would either repeal and replace or simply repeal PPACA, although no such comprehensive legislation has been enacted to-date. The Tax Act does, however, effectively repeal the individual mandate to obtain and maintain health insurance by eliminating the tax penalty associated with failing to do so.. If PPACA is repealed, with or without a replacement, we may experience a significant decrease in reimbursement from state Medicaid programs. We may also experience a significant increase in uncompensated care if many of our patients who currently obtain private health insurance coverage or Medicaid coverage under the provisions of PPACA are no longer able to maintain that coverage. Finally, PPACA currently works in conjunction with MHPAEA to require that third-party payors reimburse providers of certain mental health and substance abuse treatment services on an out-of-network basis. If PPACA or this particular provision thereof is repealed, we may experience a significant decrease in out-of-network reimbursement at certain of our facilities.. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. Companies operating in the behavioral healthcare industry in the U.S. are required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; necessity and quality of medical care; condition and adequacy of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and PHI; EMTALA compliance; handling of controlled substances; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures; activities regarding competitors; state and local land use and zoning requirements; and addition or expansion of facilities and services.. Among the laws applicable to our operations are the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Stark Law, the federal False Claims Act, and similar state laws. These laws impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other potential referral sources. We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and other professionals who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. The OIG has issued certain safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed acceptable under the Anti-Kickback Statute, and similar regulatory exceptions have been promulgated by CMS under the Stark Law. While we endeavor to ensure that our arrangements with referral sources comply with an applicable safe harbor to the Anti-Kickback Statute where possible, certain of our current arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources may not qualify for such protection. Failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement automatically violates the Anti-Kickback Statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. Moreover, while we believe that our arrangements with physicians comply with applicable Stark Law exceptions, the Stark Law is a strict liability statute for which no intent to violate the law is required.. These laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our arrangements for facilities, equipment,. 31. Table of Contents. personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws could subject us to liabilities, including civil penalties, exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the government healthcare programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. Even the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws could cause our reputation to suffer and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether other similar legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be.. The construction and operation of healthcare facilities in the U.S. are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting, compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. If we fail to adhere to these standards, we could be subject to monetary penalties or restrictions on our ability to operate.. All of our facilities that handle and dispense controlled substances must comply with strict federal and state regulations regarding the purchase, storage, distribution and disposal of such controlled substances. The potential for theft or diversion of such controlled substances for illegal uses has led the federal government as well as a number of states and localities to adopt stringent regulations not applicable to many other types of healthcare providers. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and these costs may increase in the future.. Property owners and local authorities have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to use or enact zoning ordinances to eliminate our ability to operate a given treatment facility or program. Local governmental authorities in some cases also have attempted to use litigation and the threat of prosecution to force the closure of certain comprehensive treatment facilities. If any of these attempts were to succeed or if their frequency were to increase, our revenue would be adversely affected and our operating results might be harmed. In addition, such actions may require us to litigate which would increase our costs.. Many of our U.S. facilities are also accredited by third-party accreditation agencies such as The Joint Commission or CARF. If any of our existing healthcare facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid.. Federal, state and local regulations determine the capacity at which many of our U.S. facilities may be operated. State licensing standards require many of our U.S. facilities to have minimum staffing levels; minimum amounts of residential space per student or patient and adhere to other minimum standards. Local regulations require us to follow land use guidelines at many of our U.S. facilities, including those pertaining to fire safety, sewer capacity and other physical plant matters.. Similarly, providers of behavioral healthcare services in the U.K. are also subject to a highly regulated business environment. Failure to comply with regulations, lapses in the standards of care, the receipt of poor ratings or lower ratings, the receipt of a negative report that leads to a determination of regulatory noncompliance, or the failure to cure any defect noted in an inspection report could lead to substantial penalties, including the loss of registration or closure of one or more facilities as well as damage to reputation.. Our operations in the U.K. are subject to a high level of regulation and supervision, ranging from the initial establishment of new facilities, which are subject to registration and licensing requirements, to the recruitment and appointment of staff, occupational health and safety, duty of care to service users, clinical and educational standards, conduct of our professional and support staff, the environment, public health and other areas. The regulatory requirements differ across our divisions, though almost all of our activity in England in relation to mental healthcare, elderly care and learning disability care are regulated by the CQC and in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, its local equivalent. In addition, our children's homes, residential schools and colleges in England are regulated by OFSTED, and in Scotland and Wales by their local equivalent, and all of our schools must be licensed by the Department for Education. See \"Item 1. Business - Regulation - U.K. Overview\" for further details on the key U.K. regulations to which we are subject.. Inspections by CQC, OFSTED, and other regulators can be carried out on both an announced and unannounced basis depending on the specific regulatory provisions relating to the different healthcare, social care and specialist education services we provide.. A failure to comply with regulations, the receipt of a poor rating or a lower rating, or the receipt of a negative report that leads to a determination of regulatory non-compliance or our failure to cure any defect noted in an inspection report could result in reputational damage, fines, the revocation or suspension of the registration of any facility or service or a decrease in, or cessation of, the services provided by us at any given facility. Additionally, where placements are funded by Local Authorities, most Local Authorities monitor performance and where there are shortcomings may impose punitive measures. These can, for example, include the suspension of new placements (known in the industry as \"embargoes\") and, in extreme cases, removal of all residents placed by that authority, which in turn may affect the level of referrals from other publicly funded entities and our occupancy levels.. 32. Table of Contents. Furthermore, new regulations or regulatory bodies may be introduced in the future or existing regulations and regulatory bodies may be amended or replaced and we may not adapt to such changes quickly enough, or in a cost-efficient manner. For example, the U.K. government appointed Monitor (now part of NHS Improvement) as the market regulator for healthcare providers in 2012 by way of a licensing regime. Any failure by us to comply with the licensing regime could result in Monitor revoking our license, which would mean we would be unable to operate. In addition, such regulatory changes may preclude management from executing its business plan as intended, including the timing for new developments and openings.. We cannot guarantee that current laws, regulations and regulatory assessment methodologies will not be modified or replaced in the future. There can be no assurance that our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be adversely affected by any future regulatory developments or that the cost of compliance with new regulations will not be material.. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with referral sources, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our ability to grow or even to maintain our existing level of business depends significantly on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with physicians, managed care companies, insurance companies, educational consultants and other referral sources. We may not be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. If we lose existing relationships with our referral sources, the number of people to whom we provide services may decline, which may adversely affect our revenue. If we fail to develop new referral relationships, our growth may be restrained.. We may be required to spend substantial amounts to comply with statutes and regulations relating to privacy and security of PHI.. There are currently numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives in both the U.S. and the U.K. addressing patient privacy and information security concerns. In particular, federal regulations issued under HIPAA require our U.S. facilities to comply with standards to protect the privacy, security and integrity of PHI. These requirements include the adoption of certain administrative, physical, and technical safeguards; development of adequate policies and procedures, training programs and other initiatives to ensure the privacy of PHI is maintained; entry into appropriate agreements with so-called business associates; and affording patients certain rights with respect to their PHI, including notification of any breaches. Compliance with these regulations requires substantial expenditures, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our management has spent, and may spend in the future, substantial time and effort on compliance measures.. In addition to HIPAA, we are subject to similar, and in some cases more restrictive, state and federal privacy regulations. For example, the federal government and some states impose laws governing the use and disclosure of health information pertaining to mental health and/or substance abuse treatment that are more stringent than the rules that apply to healthcare information generally. As public attention is drawn to the issues of the privacy and security of medical information, states may revise or expand their laws concerning the use and disclosure of health information, or may adopt new laws addressing these subjects.. Violations of the privacy and security regulations could subject our operations to substantial civil monetary penalties and substantial other costs and penalties associated with a breach of data security, including criminal penalties. We may also be subject to substantial reputational harm if we experience a substantial security breach involving PHI.. We are subject to uncertainties regarding recent health reform and budget legislation.. Recent developments with respect to the implementation of PPACA have created uncertainty for many healthcare providers. For example, the Tax Act will effectively repeal the individual health insurance mandate imposed under PPACA by eliminating the tax penalty associated with failure to obtain and maintain coverage. Additionally, President Trump's administration has taken certain executive actions that may promote the availability of alternative forms of health insurance outside PPACA's requirements and otherwise affect the implementation of PPACA. We cannot predict how these changes to, or the potential repeal, replacement or further modification of, PPACA will affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to adapt successfully thereto.. We are similarly unable to guarantee that current U.K. laws, regulations and regulatory assessment methodologies will not be modified or replaced in the future. Additionally, there is a risk that budget constraints, public spending cuts (such as the cuts announced by the U.K. government in the 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review and implemented in the 2011 and 2012 government budgets) or other financial pressures could cause the NHS to reduce funding for the types of services that we provide. Such policy changes in the U.K. could lead to fewer services being purchased by publicly funded entities or material changes being made to their procurement practices, any of which could materially reduce our revenue. These and other future developments and amendments may negatively impact our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See \" - Expanding our operations internationally poses additional risks to our business.\". 33. Table of Contents. Finally, the allocation of funding responsibility for adult social care will be subject to change over the next few years under the provisions of the Care Act 2014 with individuals identified as being required to pay for their own care under the relevant means test being required to take funding responsibility up to a specified lifetime monetary cap, with Local Authorities then becoming responsible for the continued funding of personal care, but not 'daily living' expenses. This will potentially place greater funding responsibility with public sector bodies over the longer term, which will potentially exacerbate the current funding challenges faced by such bodies.. The industry trend on value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenue.. There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payors currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenue if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competition may lead to declines in patient volumes.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among healthcare providers (including hospitals) for patients, physicians and other healthcare professionals has intensified in recent years. There are other healthcare facilities that provide behavioral and other mental health services comparable to those offered by our facilities in each of the geographical areas in which we operate. Some of our competitors are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by non-profit corporations and may have certain financial advantages not available to us, including endowments, charitable contributions, tax-exempt financing and exemptions from sales, property and income taxes. Some of our for-profit competitors are local, independent operators or physician groups with strong established reputations within the surrounding communities, which may adversely affect our ability to attract a sufficiently large number of patients in markets where we compete with such providers. We also face competition from other for-profit entities, who may possess greater financial, marketing or research and development resources than us or may invest more funds in renovating their facilities or developing technology.. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit and retain physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. The NHS is the principal provider of secure mental healthcare services in the U.K., with approximately 70% of the total beds in secure mental healthcare services in the U.K. As the preferred provider, there is often a bias toward referrals to NHS, and therefore NHS facilities have maintained high occupancy rates. As a result of budget constraints, independent operators have emerged to satisfy the demand for mental health services not supplied by the NHS. In addition to the NHS, we face competition in the U.K. from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for individuals requiring care and for appropriate sites on which to develop or expand facilities in the U.K. Should we fail to compete effectively with our peers and competitors in the industry, or if the competitive environment intensifies, individuals may be referred elsewhere for services that we provide, negatively impacting our ability to secure referrals and limiting the expansion of our business.. The trend by insurance companies and managed care organizations to enter into sole-source contracts may limit our ability to obtain patients.. Insurance companies and managed care organizations in the U.S. are entering into sole-source contracts with healthcare providers, which could limit our ability to obtain patients since we do not offer the range of services required for these contracts. Moreover, private insurers, managed care organizations and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid and Medicare, are beginning to carve-out specific services, including mental health and substance abuse services, and establish small, specialized networks of providers for such services at fixed reimbursement rates. Continued growth in the use of carve-out arrangements could materially adversely affect our business to the extent we are not selected to participate in such networks or if the reimbursement rate in such networks is not adequate to cover the cost of providing the service.. 34. Table of Contents. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality psychiatrists and other physicians.. The success and competitive advantage of our facilities depends, in part, on the number and quality of the psychiatrists and other physicians on the medical staffs of our facilities and our maintenance of good relations with those medical professionals. Although we employ psychiatrists and other physicians at many of our facilities, psychiatrists and other physicians generally are not employees of our facilities, and, in a number of our markets, they have admitting privileges at competing hospitals providing acute or inpatient behavioral healthcare services. Such physicians (including psychiatrists) may terminate their affiliation with us at any time or admit their patients to competing healthcare facilities or hospitals. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of quality psychiatrists and other physicians by providing adequate support personnel and facilities that meet the needs of those psychiatrists and other physicians, they may stop referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline.. It may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of psychiatrists and other physicians to practice in certain of the communities in which our facilities are located. Our failure to recruit psychiatrists and other physicians to these communities or the loss of such medical professionals in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our facilities and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our ability to recruit psychiatrists and other physicians is closely regulated. The form, amount and duration of assistance we can provide to recruited psychiatrists and other physicians is limited by the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, state anti-kickback statutes, and related regulations.. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions and any work stoppage could adversely affect our business.. Increased labor union activity could adversely affect our labor costs. As of December 31, 2017, labor unions represented approximately 460 of our employees at five of our U.S. facilities through eight collective bargaining agreements. The Royal College of Nursing represents nursing employees at our facilities in the U.K. We cannot assure you that employee relations will remain stable. Furthermore, there is a possibility that work stoppages could occur as a result of union activity, which could increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the extent that a greater portion of our employee base unionizes and the terms of any collective bargaining agreements are significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it is possible that our labor costs could increase materially and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. We depend on key management personnel, and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local facility management personnel could harm our business.. The expertise and efforts of our senior executives and the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, medical directors, physicians and other key members of our facility management personnel are important to the success of our business. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives, including our U.K. senior management team, or of a significant portion of our facility management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business.. We could face risks associated with, or arising out of, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. We are subject to various federal, foreign, state and local laws and regulations that:. <U+0095>   regulate certain activities and operations that may have environmental or health and safety effects, such as the generation, handling and disposal of medical wastes;. <U+0095>   impose liability for costs of cleaning up, and damages to natural resources from, past spills, waste disposals on and off-site, or other releases of hazardous materials or regulated substances; and. <U+0095>   regulate workplace safety.. Compliance with these laws and regulations could increase our costs of operation. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We could be responsible for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned, operated or leased sites, as well as for associated liabilities, including liabilities for natural resource damages, third-party property damage or personal injury resulting from lawsuits that could be brought by the government or private litigants, relating to our operations, the operations of facilities or the land on which our facilities are located. We may be subject to these liabilities regardless of whether we operate, lease or own the facility, and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant, or by a third party or a neighboring facility whose operations may have affected such facility or land. That is because liability for contamination under certain environmental laws can be imposed on current or past owners, lessors or operators of a site without regard to fault. We cannot assure you that environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing or future sites or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 35. Table of Contents. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare facilities in the U.S. could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations.. A majority of the states in which we operate facilities in the U.S. have enacted certificate of need (\"CON\") laws that regulate the construction or expansion of healthcare facilities, certain capital expenditures or changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval for these actions, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Our failure to obtain necessary state approval could (i) result in our inability to acquire a targeted facility, complete a desired expansion or make a desired replacement, (ii) make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the Medicare or Medicaid programs or (iii) result in the revocation of a facility's license or imposition of civil or criminal penalties, any of which could harm our business.. In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from such requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations.. We may be unable to extend leases at expiration, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We lease the real property on which a number of our facilities are located. Our lease agreements generally give us the right to renew or extend the term of the leases and, in certain cases, purchase the real property. These renewal and purchase rights generally are based upon either prescribed formulas or fair market value. Management expects to renew, extend or exercise purchase options with respect to our leases in the normal course of business; however, there can be no assurance that these rights will be exercised in the future or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent to exercising any such renewal, extension or purchase options. Furthermore, the terms of any such options that are based on fair market value are inherently uncertain and could be unacceptable or unfavorable to us depending on the circumstances at the time of exercise. If we are not able to renew or extend our existing leases, or purchase the real property subject to such leases, at or prior to the end of the existing lease terms, or if the terms of such options are unfavorable or unacceptable to us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenue.. Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as \"utilization review,\" have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. For example, PPACA expanded the potential use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by eliminating certain statutory restrictions on its use. Utilization review is also a requirement of most non-governmental managed-care organizations and other third-party payors. Although we are. unable to predict the effect these controls and changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the outsourcing of behavioral healthcare to the private sector is a relatively recent development in the U.K. There has been some opposition to outsourcing. While we anticipate that the NHS will continue to rely increasingly upon outsourcing, we cannot assure you that the outsourcing trend will continue. The absence of future growth in the outsourcing of behavioral healthcare services could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we have facilities in 39 states, the U.K. and Puerto Rico, we have substantial operations in the U.K., Pennsylvania, California and Arkansas, which makes us especially sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those locations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our revenue in the U.K. represented approximately 36% of our total revenue. Revenue from Pennsylvania, California and Arkansas represented approximately 7%, 5% and 5% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, respectively. This concentration makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in those locations. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these locations could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. If our facilities in these locations are adversely affected by changes in regulatory and economic conditions, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. 36. Table of Contents. In addition, some of our facilities are located in hurricane-prone areas. In 2017 and at other times in the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of facilities and the patient populations in hurricane-prone areas. Our business activities could be significantly disrupted by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and our property insurance may not be adequate to cover losses from such storms or other natural disasters.. We are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay.. In accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for the transfer of the individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. Our hospitals may face substantial civil penalties if we fail to provide appropriate screening and stabilizing treatment or fail to facilitate other appropriate transfers as required by EMTALA.. An increase in uninsured or underinsured patients or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations.. Collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor source, the aging of the receivables and historical collection experience. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 12% of our accounts receivable balance as of such date. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. Significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage (including the repeal, replacement or modification of PPACA) could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. If we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed.. A cyber security incident could cause a violation of HIPAA and other privacy laws and regulations or result in a loss of confidential data.. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (\"IT\") security systems causing an IT security breach, loss of PHI or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our IT business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of PHI, other confidential data or proprietary business information.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of NASDAQ listing rules and may breach the covenants under our financing arrangements. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future (including any material weakness in the controls of businesses we have acquired), their correction could require additional remedial measures which could be costly, time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are responsible for an underfunded pension liability related to our acquisition of Partnerships in Care. In addition, we may be required to increase funding of the pension plans and/or be subject to restrictions on the use of excess cash.. Partnerships in Care is the sponsor of a defined benefit pension plan (the Partnerships in Care Limited Pension and Life Assurance Plan) that covers approximately 180 members in the U.K., most of whom are inactive and retired former employees. As of May 1, 2005, this plan was closed to new participants but then-current participants continue to accrue benefits, and effective May 2015, active participants no longer accrued benefits. As of December 31, 2017, the net deficit recognized under U.S. GAAP in respect of this plan was 6.5 million.. 37. Table of Contents. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Certain current and former members of our management and stockholders have demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to shares of our common stock beneficially owned by them. The presence of additional shares of our common stock trading in the public market, as a result of the exercise of such registration rights, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they were to change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We incur costs associated with complying with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), and related rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. Enacted in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions, some of which the SEC has implemented by adopting additional rules and regulations in areas such as executive compensation. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. Management expects these laws and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although management is currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for stockholders to change management.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include:. <U+0095>   a classified board of directors;. <U+0095>   a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent;. <U+0095>   a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only upon a resolution approved by a majority of our directors then in office;. <U+0095>   advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and. <U+0095>   the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\") prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Although we have elected not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that Waud Capital Partners, L.L.C. (\"WCP\"), its affiliates and any investment fund managed by WCP and any persons to whom WCP sells at least five percent (5%) of our outstanding voting stock will be deemed to have been approved by our board of directors, and thereby not subject to the restrictions set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that have the same effect as Section 203 of the DGCL. Accordingly, the provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that adopts a modified version of Section 203 of the DGCL may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us.. 38. Table of Contents. As a result of these provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in our business or for other corporate purposes and do not anticipate that cash dividends with respect to common stock will be paid in the foreseeable future. Any decision as to the future payment of dividends will depend on our results of operations, financial position and such other factors as our board of directors, in its discretion, deems relevant. In addition, the terms of our debt substantially limit our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be a stockholder's sole source of gain for the foreseeable future."
