[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Corporation's Business. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry in Northern Virginia.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. In particular, there is very strong competition for financial services in Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area in which we conduct a substantial portion of our business. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions and many offer products and services that we do not. Many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally-insured national banks, including credit unions which do not pay federal income tax, and, therefore, have regulatory advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. While we believe we compete effectively with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller asset base, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we have to raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on loans to compete effectively, our net interest margin and income could be negatively. 15. affected. Failure to compete effectively to attract new or to retain existing clients may reduce or limit our net income and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth.. Our profitability depends on interest rates generally, and we may be adversely affected by changes in government monetary policy or by fluctuations in interest rates.. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments.. Changes in interest rates, particularly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, which implements national monetary policy in order to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures, also affect the value of our loans. In setting its policy, the Federal Reserve Board may utilize techniques such as: (i) engaging in open market transactions in United States government securities; (ii) setting the discount rate on member bank borrowings; and (iii) determining reserve requirements. These techniques may have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, net interest margin, loan demand or our business and operations. In addition, an increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers' ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our non-performing assets, a decrease in loan originations, or a reduction in the value of and income from our loans, any of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. We try to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Fluctuations in market rates and other market disruptions are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In December 2017, the federal funds rate increased from 1.25% to 1.50%, the fifth increase in federal funds rates since December 2008 and the third increase during 2017. In March 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") announced an additional 0.25% rate hike bringing the federal funds rate to 1.75% and projecting another two rate hikes remaining for 2018. This decision was based on strengthening in the labor market and continued increases in economic activity.  Even with this rate hike, the continued low rate environment will continue to stress net interest margins as competition in the banking industry tightens.. At December 31, 2017 approximately 48% of the loans held for investment were variable rate loans. A majority of these loans are based on the prime rate and will adjust upwards as the prime rate increases. While the variable rate structure on these loans reduces interest rate risk for the Bank, increases in rates may cause the borrower's required payment to increase which, in turn, may increase the risk of payment default.. Because we make loans primarily to local small and medium sized businesses, our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions, particularly real estate values, and the success of those businesses.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan clients may not repay their loans according to their terms and any collateral securing payment may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs we incur disposing of the collateral. Although we have collateral for most of our loans, that collateral can fluctuate in value and may not always cover the outstanding balance on the loan. With most of our loans concentrated in Northern Virginia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our net income and capital than on the net income and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse.. In addition to assessing the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of each of our borrowers, the Bank often secures loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2017, approximately 75% of our Bank's loans held for investment have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our net income and capital could be adversely affected.. Our business strategy includes the continuation of our growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We intend to continue to grow in our existing banking markets (internally and through additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are experiencing growth. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets, or that any expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business. 16. strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially affected in an adverse way. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed.. The merger with Middleburg could result in a decline in shareholder value for the following reasons:. • If Access and Middleburg do not successfully integrate, the combined company may not realize the expected benefits from the merger.. Integration in connection with a merger is sometimes difficult, and there is a risk that integrating Access and Middleburg may take more time and resources than we expect. Access's ability to integrate Middleburg and its future success depend in large part on the ability of members of its board of directors and executive officers to work together effectively. Access is governed by a board of directors comprised of 12 directors, of which seven are legacy directors of Access and the following five are legacy directors of Middleburg: John C. Lee, IV, Childs F. Burden, Gary D. LeClair, Mary Leigh McDaniel, and Janet A. Neuharth. John C. Lee, IV, serves as chairman of Access's board of directors; Michael G. Anzilotti, serves as vice chairman of Access's board; and the Executive Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors are Mr. Anzilotti, Martin S. Friedman, Michael W. Clarke, and Mr. Lee, IV. The executive officers of Access remained in their current positions as executive officers of Access after the merger, and Jeffrey H. Culver also serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Disagreements among board members and executive management could arise in connection with integration issues, strategic considerations and other matters. As a result, there is a risk that Access's board of directors and executive officers may not be able to operate effectively, which would affect adversely Access's ability to integrate the operations of Access and Middleburg successfully and Access's future operating results.. • Access may not be able to effectively integrate the operations of Middleburg Bank into Access National Bank.. The future operating performance of Access and Access National Bank will depend, in part, on the success of the merger of Middleburg Bank and Access National Bank. Middleburg Bank has been merged with and into Access National Bank with Access National Bank surviving. Since the merger of Access and Middleburg, each director of Access, in addition to Mark Moore, President of Access National Bank, is serving as a director of Access National Bank and as a director of Middleburg Bank, and executive officers of Access National Bank will continue serving in their current positions as officers of Access National Bank. Since the merger of Access and Middleburg, Mr. Culver serves as an officer of Access National Bank as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and all executive officers of Access National Bank will serve in substantially similar positions as officers of Middleburg Bank. The success of the merger of the banks will, in turn, depend on a number of factors, including Access's ability to: (i) integrate the operations and branches of Middleburg Bank and Access National Bank; (ii) retain the deposits and customers of Middleburg Bank and Access National Bank; (iii) control the incremental increase in noninterest expense arising from the merger in a manner that enables the combined bank to improve its overall operating efficiencies; and (iv) retain and integrate the appropriate personnel of Middleburg Bank into the operations of Access National Bank, as well as reducing overlapping bank personnel. The integration of Middleburg Bank and Access National Bank following the subsidiary bank merger will require the dedication of the time and resources of the banks' management and may temporarily distract managements' attention from the day-to-day business of the banks. If Access National Bank is unable to successfully integrate Middleburg Bank, Access National Bank may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies and eliminate redundant costs.. Access may need additional access to capital, which Access may be unable to obtain on attractive terms or at all.. Access may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments for future growth or to fund losses or additional provision for loan losses in the future. Access's ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of Access's control, and on Access's financial performance. Accordingly, Access may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to it, or at all. If Access cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and its stock price negatively affected.. Access may borrow funds or issue additional debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to Access common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of Access common stock.. 17. In the future, Access may attempt to increase its capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of Access's assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock, common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of Access's liquidation, its lenders and holders of its debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of its available assets before distributions to the holders of Access common stock. Because Access's decision to incur debt and issue securities in its future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond Access's control, Access cannot predict or estimate with certainty the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require Access to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of its securities in the future. In addition, the borrowing of funds or the issuance of debt would increase Access's leverage and decrease its liquidity, and the issuance of additional equity securities would dilute the interests of Access's existing shareholders.. Sales of a significant number of shares of Access common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of Access common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Access common stock in the public markets, including shares issued to shareholders of acquired institutions, and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of Access common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of Access's existing shareholders and could cause the market price of Access common stock to decline. Access may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. Depending on the amount offered and the levels at which Access offers the stock, issuances of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to holders of Access common stock. Moreover, to the extent that Access issues restricted stock, options or warrants to purchase Access common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or as shares of the restricted stock vest, Access shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of Access common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro-rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to Access shareholders. Access cannot predict with certainty the effect that future sales of Access common stock would have on the market price of its common stock.. Our allowance for loan losses could become inadequate and reduce our net income and capital.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management conducts a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio to determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses based upon general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio and performance of our clients relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses, however, is susceptible to changes in borrowers' circumstances and economic and other market conditions, including changes in interest rates and collateral values that are beyond our control, and these future losses may exceed our current estimates. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2017 was $15.8 million. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or guarantee that our allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance and reduce our net income and capital.. Our future liquidity needs could exceed our available liquidity sources, which could limit our asset growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of the Bank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters, and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments, and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate.. 18. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our net income.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and both the Corporation and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller, and the FDIC. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors and the FDIC's DIF rather than our shareholders.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the cost of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. As a result, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience greater compliance costs.. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks that are not subject to similar regulation to offer competing financial services and products, which could place these non-banks in stronger, more favorable competitive positions and which could adversely affect the Corporation's growth and ability to operate profitably. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act has increased the Corporation's regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, placed restrictions on certain products and services, increases the risk and liability of consumer litigation, and limited its future capital raising strategies.. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry has been proposed and/or implemented in recent years. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted in 2010 and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that have impacted and will continue to impact all financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank.  Since its enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act has increased, and will likely continue to increase, the Corporation's regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation by increasing the costs associated with regulatory examinations and compliance measures. However, it is too early to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent regulatory rulemaking processes on the Corporation's and the Bank's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Among the Dodd-Frank Act's significant regulatory changes, the Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , a financial consumer protection agency that has the authority to impose new regulations and include its examiners in routine regulatory examinations conducted by the Comptroller. The CFPB may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act's prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Corporation and the Bank.  This agency's broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service.  Although the CFPB generally has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the CFPB may also apply to the Corporation, the Bank and/or the Mortgage Division by virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve Board, Comptroller and FDIC.  The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that may be placed upon the Corporation with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined.  However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may produce significant, material effects on the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries. These and other regulations included in the Dodd-Frank Act could increase the Corporation's regulatory compliance burden and costs, restrict the financial products and services the Corporation can offer to its customers and restrict the Corporation's ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which may cause the Corporation to reevaluate elements of its business focus and shape future capital strategies.. 19. In January 2014, the Qualified Mortgage (QM) and Qualified Residential Mortgage (QRM) rules became effective under the Dodd Frank Act and may impact the willingness and ability of community banks and secondary market participants to make mortgage loans. Among other requirements, these rules require lenders to show that borrowers met an \"ability to repay\" test  -  which can be challenged in court for the entire life of the loan, raising the risk of litigation. Failure to prove the ability to repay can result in the lender's obligation to reimburse the borrower for all payments made. Together with newly imposed timeline restrictions covering the liquidation of problem consumer mortgage loans, litigation over \"ability to repay\" may delay the time to collect on soured consumer mortgages and result in elevated problem assets and increased loss rates.. The Basel III Final Rules require higher levels of capital and liquid assets, which could adversely affect the Corporation's net income and return on equity.. The Basel III Final Rules represent the most comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking capital framework in over two decades. This new capital framework and related changes to the standardized calculations of risk-weighted assets are complex and create additional compliance burdens, especially for community banks. The Basel III Final Rules require bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as the Corporation and the Bank, to maintain significantly more capital as a result of higher required capital levels and more demanding regulatory capital risk weightings and calculations. As a result of the Basel III Final Rules, many community banks could be forced to limit banking operations, activities and growth of loan portfolios, in order to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. The Corporation believes that it maintains sufficient levels of Tier 1 and Common Equity Tier 1 capital to comply with the Basel III Final Rules. However, the Corporation can offer no assurances with regard to the ultimate effect of the Basel III Final Rules, and satisfying increased capital requirements imposed by the Basel III Final Rules may require the Corporation to limit its banking operations, retain net income or reduce dividends to improve regulatory capital levels, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the Corporation were to require additional capital as a result of phasing in the Basel III Final Rules, it could be required to access the capital markets on short notice and in relatively weak economic conditions, which could result in banks raising capital that significantly dilutes existing shareholders. Additionally, the Corporation could be forced to limit banking operations and activities, and growth of loan portfolios and interest income, to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. Higher capital levels may also lower the Corporation's return on equity.. Our hedging strategies do not completely eliminate risks associated with interest rates and we may incur losses due to changes in interest rates that are not effectively hedged.. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely, and we cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives that would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans held for sale and mortgage-related securities. We utilize a third party consulting firm to manage our hedging activities and we typically hedge 80% of our loan pipeline and 100% of our loans being warehoused. The derivative financial instruments used to hedge the interest rate risk of our loan pipeline and warehoused loans are forward sales of 15 year and 30 year mortgage backed securities. The notional amount and fair value of these derivatives are disclosed in Note 8 of the financial statements.. The primary risks related to our hedging activities relate to incorrect assumptions regarding pull through and the amount of the pipeline being hedged. A hedging policy and hedging management committee are in place to control, monitor and manage risks associated with our hedging activity. The hedging policy quantifies risk tolerance thresholds that ensure the economic risk taken is not material to the Corporation's financial condition or operating performance. See \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies\" and \"Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". The profitability of the Mortgage Division will be significantly reduced if we are not able to sell mortgages.. Currently, we generally sell all of the mortgage loans originated by the Mortgage Division. We only underwrite mortgages that we reasonably expect will have more than one potential purchaser. The profitability of our Mortgage Division depends in large part upon our ability to originate or purchase a high volume of loans and to quickly sell them in the secondary market. Thus, we are dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to sell loans into that market.. The Mortgage Division's ability to sell mortgage loans readily is dependent upon the availability of an active secondary market for single-family mortgage loans, which in turn depends in part upon the continuation of programs currently offered by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other institutional and non-institutional investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Some of the largest participants in the secondary market, including Fannie. 20. Mae and Freddie Mac, are government-sponsored enterprises with substantial market influence whose activities are governed by federal law. Any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of these government-sponsored enterprises and other institutional and non-institutional investors or any impairment of our ability to participate in such programs could, in turn, adversely affect our operations.. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported past substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. Such losses were due to these entities' business models being tied extensively to the U.S. housing market which severely contracted during the recent economic downturn. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from the U.S. housing market contraction, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these entities. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, was established in July 2008 pursuant to the Regulatory Reform Act in an effort to enhance regulatory oversight over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into federal conservatorship in September 2008. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have returned to profitability as a result of the housing market recovery, but their long-term financial viability is highly dependent on governmental support. If the governmental support is inadequate, these companies could fail to offer programs necessary to an active secondary market. In addition, future policies that change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, including those that result in their winding down, nationalization, privatization, or elimination may have broad adverse implications for the residential mortgage market, the mortgage-backed securities market and the Mortgage Division's business, operations and financial condition. If this were to occur, the Mortgage Division's ability to sell mortgage loans readily could be hampered, and the profitability of the Bank could be significantly reduced.. Our net income may be adversely affected if representations and warranties related to loans sold by the Mortgage Division are breached and we must pay related claims.. The Mortgage Division makes representations and warranties that loans sold to investors meet their program's guidelines and that the information provided by the borrowers is accurate and complete and that the loan documents are complete and executed by the borrowers. In the event of a default on a loan sold, the investor may make a claim for losses due to document deficiencies, program compliance, early payment default, and fraud or borrower misrepresentations. The Mortgage Division maintains a reserve in other liabilities for potential losses on mortgage loans sold. Net income may be impacted if this reserve is insufficient to cover claims from the investors.. Our net income, capital, and reputation may be adversely affected if our efforts to protect or authenticate customers' information or customers' transactions fails.. Identity theft and data breaches are on the rise. To date, our losses have been immaterial due in part to our client awareness program, systems and controls. While we regularly review activity and adopt new practices when warranted to control exposure, we have no way of predicting when a compromise may occur and the magnitude or liability arising from such a compromise. In particular, the occurrence of identity theft or data breaches could expose the Corporation to risks of data loss or data misuse, could damage the Corporation's reputation and result in the loss of customers and business, could subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny or could expose the Corporation to civil litigation, possible financial liability and costly remedial measures. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations.. An economic downturn may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition because our small to medium sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather an economic downturn.. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and, therefore, may be more vulnerable in an economic downturn. If general economic conditions negatively impact this economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, the success of a small or medium sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse effect on the business and its ability to repay a loan.. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and the strength of our Access National brand and adversely impact our business, client relationships and net income.. Reputation risk, or the risk to our businesses' (including our primary commercial banking business and secondary mortgage lending business) net income and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and. 21. acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees or our access to the capital markets and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action.. Virtually all of our businesses operate under the \"Access National\" brand. Any actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses could result in negative public opinion about our other businesses under the Access National brand. Because our businesses rely on and leverage the strength of the Access National brand any negative public opinion that tarnishes our Access National brand may negatively impact our business, client relationships and financial performance. Although we take steps to minimize our reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, due to the nature of the commercial banking and mortgage lending businesses we will always face some measure of reputational risk.. If the U.S. financial system were to destabilize again, the financial condition of our target markets may suffer, which could adversely affect our business.. In response to the financial crises beginning in 2008 that affected the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, various branches and agencies of the U.S. government put in place laws, regulations, and programs to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual long-term impact that such laws, regulations, and programs will have on the financial markets.. Among many other contributing factors, the recent recession was triggered by instability of financial institutions and large measures of volatility and fear in the financial markets. This financial instability led to an economic downturn and current stagnant recovery which, in turn, has harmed the financial condition and performance of our small to medium sized business target market. If despite such laws, regulations, and programs the financial markets again destabilize, or recent financial market conditions deteriorate rather than continuing to improve or remain steady, the financial condition of our small to medium sized business target market would suffer and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock.. Significant reductions in U.S. government spending may have an adverse effect on our local economy and customer base.. The Corporation's success depends significantly on the general economic conditions in the markets in which it operates. The economy of our primary market, the greater Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area is significantly affected by federal government spending. In particular, Fairfax County, Virginia receives more federal procurement dollars than any other county in Virginia. Some of our customers may be particularly sensitive to the level of federal government spending, which is affected by many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, administrative and congressional priorities and the ability of the federal government to enact relevant appropriations bills and other legislation. Any of these or other factors could result in future cuts in, or uncertainty with respect to, federal spending, which could have a severe negative impact on individuals and businesses in our primary market areas. Any related increase in unemployment rates or reduction in business development activities in the greater Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Area could lead to increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and reductions in loan collateral values, as well as other adverse implications that we cannot predict, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and financial condition.. We have substantial counterparty risk due to our transactions with financial institution counterparties and the soundness of such counterparties could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers, dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and government sponsored enterprises. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or other obligation due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $185.2 million of goodwill and other intangible assets.  A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates, or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. 22. and other intangible assets.  If we were to conclude that a future writedown of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated With The Corporation's Common Stock. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory restrictions, and we may be unable to pay future dividends.. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. Also, our only source of funds with which to pay dividends to our shareholders is dividends we receive from our Bank, and the Bank's ability to pay dividends to us is limited by its own obligations to maintain sufficient capital and regulatory restrictions. If these regulatory requirements are not satisfied, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. We have paid quarterly cash dividends since our first cash dividend on February 24, 2006. We cannot guarantee that dividends will not be reduced or eliminated in future periods.. Certain provisions under our articles of incorporation and applicable law may make it difficult for others to obtain control of our Corporation even if such a change in control may be favored by some shareholders.. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and applicable Virginia corporate and banking law may have the effect of discouraging a change of control of our company even if such a transaction is favored by some of our shareholders and could result in shareholders receiving a substantial premium over the current market price of our shares.  The primary purpose of these provisions is to encourage negotiations with our management by persons interested in acquiring control of our Corporation.  These provisions may also tend to perpetuate present management and make it difficult for shareholders owning less than a majority of the shares to be able to elect even a single director.. The ownership position of certain shareholders, directors and officers may permit them to exert a major influence on the election of directors and other corporate actions that require a shareholder vote, including change in control transactions.. As of December 31, 2017, our chairman of the board, executive officers and directors and one other principal shareholder collectively beneficially owned approximately 27.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our executive officers and directors collectively beneficially owned approximately 14.4% of our common stock and one other individual shareholder has declared beneficial ownership of an additional 13.1% of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may allow our directors, acting in their role as substantial shareholders, to exert a major influence over the election of their nominees as directors, especially if voting together with our officers and other significant shareholders. Our directors, officers, and major shareholders could exercise similar influence over other corporate actions that require a shareholder vote, including change in control transactions.. The trading volume in the corporation's common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. Although the Corporation's common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Corporation has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Corporation's common stock, significant sales of the Corporation's common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Corporation's stock price to fall.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on our internal controls over financial reporting.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting.  If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") or NASDAQ.  Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock and may also result in delayed filings with the SEC.. 23. On April 4, 2018, BDO USA, LLP (\"BDO\"), our independent registered public accounting firm, issued its report regarding the  Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, and expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control due to a control deficiency that existed related to the controls surrounding the general ledger account reconciliations to timely identify and account for stale-dated and other uncollectable reconciling items that began as of the Corporation's core platform conversion with Middleburg Financial Corporation on August 4, 2017, and continued through December 31, 2017, resulting in a material weakness.  Completion of the general ledger account reconciliations covering the period noted did not result in any material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements.  Management has put into place a remediation process which is further described in Item 9A herein and which will begin in the second quarter of 2018.  If the remediation efforts do not operate effectively or if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation efforts, this may result in untimely or inaccurate reporting of our financial results."
