[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also impair our business operations. If any of the following risk factors occur, our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our credit facility, as amended by the September 2018 Amendment, contains several restrictive covenants that limit our corporate activities.. At June 30, 2018, we had $62,000 of revolving bank loans outstanding and $127,500 outstanding in a bank term loan, all subject to a secured credit facility. As was the case at March 31, 2018, we did not satisfy certain financial covenants under this facility as of June 30, 2018. In response, as discussed under Part II, Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”, we entered into an amendment (referred to herein as the September 2018 Amendment) to our credit facility to respond to and resolve our covenant non-compliance. The terms of our credit facility, as amended by the September 2018 Amendment, require us to meet certain financial covenants, contain other affirmative covenants and reference multiple potential events of default, including payment defaults and covenant defaults. The credit facility, as amended by the September 2018 Amendment, also contains certain negative covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Among the restrictions imposed by the September 2018 Amendment, we have agreed to: (a) a restriction on dividends for the fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2018, December 31, 2018, March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2019 to an amount not to exceed $325 for any fiscal quarter, (b) increasing the applicable margin with respect to the interest rates on all loans under the A&R Credit Agreement by 450 basis points and fixing (during the September 2018 Amendment Limitation Period) the applicable margin with respect to the interest rate on all loans under the A&R Credit Agreement to the highest level provided under the A&R Credit Agreement, which is currently 6.00% in the case of ABR Loans and 7.00% in the case of Eurodollar Loans, (c) during the September 2018 Amendment Limitation Period, requiring the Company to maintain the sum of Domestic Liquidity plus Foreign Liquidity and the undrawn portion of the Revolving Commitment (referred to herein as “Covenant Liquidity”) to an amount of at least $55,000 (referred to herein as the “Covenant Liquidity Amount”) as of the last business day of each week following the effectiveness of the September 2018 Amendment; provided that the Company shall not be in breach of the minimum liquidity covenant unless the Covenant Liquidity is less than the Covenant Liquidity Amount as of the last business day of two consecutive weeks, (d) requiring the prior written consent of the Required Lenders as a condition precedent to the lenders extending any Loans or the issuing banks issuing, amending, renewing or extending any Letter of Credit and (e) restricting the incurrence of certain indebtedness, limiting acquisitions and other investments and imposing certain other restrictions. The September 2018 Amendment does permit the purchase, during fiscal year 2019, of assets for an aggregate consideration not to exceed $12,300, consisting of intangible assets relating to strategic product acquisitions and certain capital expenditures.. Even if we are able to meet our enhanced obligations, the amount of debt we have could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, dividend payments, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes. It also places us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors who have lower levels of debt, while making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy in general. It also requires us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of investing those funds in the business.. The material impairment charge that we recorded in fiscal 2018 was based on several adverse factors, certain of which could materially adversely impact the Company in subsequent fiscal quarters.. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets of $256,266, all of which related to the Rising Pharmaceuticals reporting unit which is part of the Human Health segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our Rising Pharmaceuticals reporting unit had a decline in actual and forecasted revenue and earnings due to the persistent adverse conditions in the generics market. In addition, the U.S. government made a determination (which was subsequently reversed) that 11 generic drug products we acquired through our Acetris Health subsidiary (part of the Rising Pharmaceuticals reporting unit) in a product purchase agreement with Lucid were not in compliance with the country-of-origin provisions of a clause contained in the government supply contracts acquired from Lucid. As a result of the foregoing, we conducted an impairment test and recognized a significant goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge.. Many of the market and industry factors that led to the March 31, 2018 impairment charges could continue to impact us in future fiscal periods. Such factors could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows and could lead to additional impairment charges in the future.. 10. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, many of which have greater market presence and resources than us, our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Our financial condition and operating results are directly related to our ability to compete in the intensely competitive global pharmaceutical and chemical markets. We face intense competition from global and regional distributors of pharmaceutical and chemical products, many of which are large pharmaceutical and chemical manufacturers as well as distributors. Many of these companies have substantially greater resources than us, including, among other things, greater financial, marketing and distribution resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. In addition, increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share for our products, all of which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our distribution operations of finished dosage form generic drugs and APIs are subject to the risks of the generic pharmaceutical industry.. The ability of our business to generate consistent growth is affected, in large part, by our participation in the launch of new products by generic manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of competition encountered by these products. Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on certain regulatory and competitive factors. This competition can result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a corresponding decrease in net sales. Net selling prices of generic drugs typically decline over time, sometimes dramatically, as additional generic pharmaceutical companies receive approvals and enter the market for a given generic product and competition intensifies. When additional versions of one of our generic products enter the market, we generally lose market share and our selling prices and margins on that product decline. The generic pharmaceutical industry has experienced continued pricing pressure, intense competition and customer consolidation that may continue to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the FDA granting final approval simultaneously or within close proximity to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces a generic firm to face immediate competition when it introduces a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. As a result, we could be unable to grow or maintain market share with respect to our generic pharmaceutical products, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We may experience declines in sales volumes or prices of certain of our products as the result of the concentration of sales to wholesalers and the continuing trend towards consolidation of such wholesalers and other customer groups which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Wholesalers and retail drug chains have in recent years seen increased consolidation, resulting in larger competitors and placing further pressure on prices, development activities and customer retention. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our finished dosage form generic business. The result of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our pipeline of products in development may be subject to regulatory delays at the FDA. Delays in key products could have material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our future revenue growth and profitability are partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors’ product introductions. Our failure to do so successfully could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Many products require FDA approval or the equivalent regulatory approvals in our overseas markets prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining FDA/regulatory approval to market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and often unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products.. 11. Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing and all products, including those already approved, may need to meet current standards. If our products are not able to meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market.. Steadily increasing quality standards are applicable to pharmaceutical products still under development and those already approved and on the market. These standards result from product quality initiatives implemented by the FDA, and updated U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention (“USP”) Reference Standards. The USP is a scientific nonprofit organization that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed, and consumed worldwide. Pharmaceutical products approved prior to the implementation of new quality standards may not meet these standards, which could require us to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If brand pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative and regulatory efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.. Many brand pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included:. ·pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the expiration of one patent which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of generics;. ·using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards;. ·seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopoeia, an organization which publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;. ·attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation;. ·engaging in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that we are developing;. ·persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists;. ·entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market;. ·filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or sale of generic products; and,. ·introducing “next-generation” products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval.. In the U.S., some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to the Hatch-Waxman Act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the term of a company’s drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an NDA is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted.. If proposals like these were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. A proposed FDA rule allowing generic companies to distribute revised labels that differ from the corresponding reference listed drug (“RLD”) could have an adverse effect on our operations because of a potential increase in litigation exposure.. On November 13, 2013, the FDA issued a proposed rule (Docket No. FDA-2013-N-0500) titled \"Supplemental Applications Proposing Labeling Changes for Approved Drugs and Biological Products.\" Pursuant to the rule, the FDA will change existing regulations to allow generic drug application holders, in advance of the FDA’s review, to distribute revised labeling, to reflect safety-related changes based on newly acquired information. Currently, the labels of generic drugs must conform to those of the corresponding RLD and any failure-to-warn claims against generic companies are preempted under U.S. Federal law. Once this rule is released, we could be found liable under such failure-to-warn claims if we do not revise our labeling to reflect safety-related changes promptly upon receipt of applicable safety information. While we proactively conduct surveillance for reported safety issues with our products, we cannot guarantee that this will prevent us from being found liable under a failure-to-warn claim. When this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims, which, even if successfully defended, could have material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 12. Our policies regarding returns, allowances, rebates and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods.. Based on industry practice, generic drug manufacturers have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. We, like other generic companies, have agreements with customers allowing chargebacks, product returns, administrative fees, and other rebates. Under these arrangements, from time to time we give our customers credits on our generic products that our customers already hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products due to competitive pricing. Therefore, if new competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products, we would likely reduce the price of our product. As a result, we would be obligated to provide credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesalers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other customers.. A chargeback is the difference between the price the wholesaler pays and the price that the wholesaler’s end-customer pays for a product. Although we establish reserves based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances, rebates, chargebacks and partnered product liabilities will not exceed our estimates.. The regulatory approval process outside the U.S. varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements, and failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent the marketing of our products in those jurisdictions.. We have certain worldwide intellectual property rights to market some of our products and product candidates. We intend to seek approval to market certain of our products outside of the U.S. To market our products in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory authorization and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing that product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth herein and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign regulatory authorities in one country ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or the FDA. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue from abroad will be adversely affected.. We have entered into collaborative arrangements that may not result in marketable products.. We regularly enter into collaborative arrangements to develop generic products for us to market in the U.S. We can offer no assurances that these arrangements will result in additional approved products, or that we will be able to market the products at a profit. In addition, any expenses related to trials, or additional studies required by the FDA, that we may incur in connection with these collaborative arrangements may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Specifically:. ·trials could be more costly than we anticipate;. ·formulation development could take longer and be more costly than we expect; and. ·we may be required to obtain specialized equipment in order to manufacture products on a commercial scale.. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 13. Our growth and development will depend on developing, commercializing and marketing new products, including both our own products and those developed with our collaboration partners. If we do not do so successfully, our growth and development will be impaired.. Our future revenues and profitability will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to successfully commercialize new generic pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. As a result, we must continually develop and test new products, and these new products must meet regulatory standards and receive requisite regulatory approvals. Products we are currently developing may or may not achieve the technology success or receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for us to market them. Furthermore, the development and commercialization process is time-consuming and costly, and we cannot assure you that any of our products, if and when developed and approved, can be successfully commercialized. Some of our collaboration partners may decide to make substantial changes to a product’s formulation or design, may experience financial difficulties or have limited financial resources, any of which may delay the development, commercialization and/or marketing of new products. In addition, if a co-developer on a new product terminates our collaboration agreement or does not perform under the agreement, we may experience delays and, possibly, additional costs in developing and marketing that product.. The time necessary to develop generic drugs may adversely affect whether, and the extent to which, we receive a return on our capital.. We generally begin our development activities for a new generic drug product several years in advance of the patent expiration date of the brand-name drug equivalent. The development process, including drug formulation, testing, and FDA review and approval, often takes three or more years. This process requires that we expend considerable capital to pursue activities that do not yield an immediate or near-term return. Also, because of the significant time necessary to develop a product, the actual market for a product at the time it is available for sale may be significantly less than the originally projected market for the product, including the possibility that the product has become eligible for OTC sales. If this were to occur, our potential return on our investment in developing the product, if approved for marketing by the FDA, would be adversely affected and we may never receive a return on our investment in the product.. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected.. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Dependence on a limited number of suppliers of Human Health and Pharmaceutical Ingredients products could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs.. Our future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers’ ability to timely provide Human Health and Pharmaceutical Ingredients products in connection with ANDAs and such suppliers’ ability to supply us with these ingredients or materials in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the ingredients or materials that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. If there is a significant increase in demand for an ingredient or other material resulting in an inability to meet demand, if an ingredient or material is otherwise in short supply or becomes wholly unavailable, if a supplier fails to supply the ingredients or materials, or if a supplier has a quality issue, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that ingredient or material. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of ingredients or other necessary materials, we may experience production delays in our supply. We may also incur substantial liability to our customers for failing to supply the product to them. (See “We may be subject to significant level service penalties in our generics business.”).. Each of the following could also interrupt the supply of, or increase the cost of, ingredients or other materials:. ·an unwillingness of a supplier to supply ingredients or other materials to us;. ·consolidation of key suppliers;. ·failure of a key supplier’s business process;. ·a key supplier’s inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or. ·failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent supplier, or to adjust to market conditions.. Any interruption in the supply or increase in the cost of ingredients or other materials provided by single or limited source suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 14. We may be subject to significant service level penalties in our generics business.. Certain of our distribution agreements in our finished dosage form generics business contain service level penalties (“failure to supply”) or similar provisions that may subject us to charges and penalties in the event we do not meet our supply obligations thereunder. Such charges and penalties may be substantial and may not be adequately reimbursed by our suppliers or at all. We incurred approximately $27,778 in gross failure to supply penalties during the year ended June 30, 2018 of which we anticipate approximately $9,445 will be reimbursed to us by our suppliers responsible for our inability to supply product. Additionally, we are disputing many of these charges and working with our customers to reverse some of these charges. The level of failure to supply penalties is difficult for us to predict and thus we can provide no assurance with respect to the level of these penalties in future periods.  A continuation of these supply challenges could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our success in our Human Health segment is linked to the size and growth rate of the generic pharmaceutical, vitamin, mineral and supplement markets and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of these markets could have a material adverse effect on us.. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the generic pharmaceutical, vitamin, mineral and supplement markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative.. Healthcare reform and a reduction in the reimbursement levels by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the United States, and it is likely that Congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. Third party payors increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare, the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. If significant additional reforms are made to the United States healthcare system, those reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions.. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a number of public health issues whether occurring in the United States or abroad.. Public health issues, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have a broader adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers and customers. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.. 15. Our revenue stream and related gross profit is difficult to predict.. Our revenue stream is difficult to predict because it is primarily generated as customers place orders and customers can change their requirements or cancel orders. Many of our sales orders are short-term and could be cancelled at any time. As a result, much of our revenue is not recurring from period to period, which contributes to the variability of our results from period to period. In addition, certain of our products carry a higher gross margin than other products, particularly in the Human Health and Pharmaceutical Ingredients segments. Reduced sales of these higher margin products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.. From time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain.. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Changes to the industries and markets that Aceto serves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. The business environment in which we operate remains challenging. Portions of our operations are subject to the same business cycles as those experienced by automobile, housing, and durable goods manufacturers. Our demand is largely derived from the demand for our customers’ products, which subjects us to uncertainties related to downturns in our customers’ business and unanticipated customer production shutdowns or curtailments. A material downturn in sales or gross profit due to weak end-user markets and loss of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our operating results could fluctuate in future quarters, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our operating results could fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the timing of contracts, orders, the delay or cancellation of a contract, and changes in government regulations. Any one of these factors could have a significant impact on our quarterly results. In some quarters, our revenue and operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. We have significant inventories on hand.. The Company maintains significant inventories. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions, including, among other things, the current uncertainty in the global market, could materially adversely affect the value of inventory and our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Failure to obtain products from outside manufacturers could adversely affect our ability to fulfill sales orders to our customers.. We rely on outside manufacturers to supply products for resale to our customers. Manufacturing problems, including, among other things, manufacturing delays caused by plant shutdowns, regulatory issues, damage or disruption to raw material supplies due to weather, including, among other things, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster or fire, could occur. If such problems occur, we cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver our products to our customers profitably or on time. Such factors could exacerbate our exposure to failure to supply penalties. See “We may be subject to significant service level penalties in our generics business.”. Increases in the cost of shipping with our third-party shippers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.. 16. We could incur significant uninsured environmental and other liabilities inherent in the chemical/pharmaceutical distribution industry that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. The business of distributing chemicals and pharmaceuticals is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state, local, and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations impose liability for loss of life, damage to property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage that could occur in our business. Many of these regulations provide for substantial fines and remediation costs in the event of chemical spills, explosions and pollution. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all current laws and regulations, we can give no assurance that we will not incur material liabilities that are not covered by insurance or exceed our insurance coverage or that such insurance will remain available on terms and at rates acceptable to us. Additionally, if existing environmental and other regulations are changed, or additional laws or regulations are passed, the cost of complying with those laws could be substantial, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. In fiscal years 2011, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company received letters from the Pulvair Site Group, a group of potentially responsible parties (PRP Group) who are working with the State of Tennessee (the State) to remediate a contaminated property in Tennessee called the Pulvair site. The PRP Group has alleged that Aceto shipped hazardous substances to the site which were released into the environment. The State had begun administrative proceedings against the members of the PRP Group and Aceto with respect to the cleanup of the Pulvair site and the PRP Group has begun to undertake cleanup. The PRP Group is seeking a settlement of approximately $1,700 from the Company for its share to remediate the site contamination. Although the Company acknowledges that it shipped materials to the site for formulation over twenty years ago, the Company believes that the evidence does not show that the hazardous materials sent by Aceto to the site have significantly contributed to the contamination of the environment and thus believes that, at most, it is a de minimis contributor to the site contamination. Accordingly, the Company believes that the settlement offer is unreasonable. Management believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity.. Our subsidiary, Arsynco, has environmental remediation obligations in connection with its former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt, New Jersey. Estimates of how much it would cost to remediate environmental contamination at this site have increased since the facility was closed in 1993. If the actual costs are significantly greater than estimated, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. In March 2006, Arsynco received notice from the EPA of its status as a PRP under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) for a site described as the Berry’s Creek Study Area (“BCSA”). Arsynco is one of over 150 PRPs which have potential liability for the required investigation and remediation of the site. The estimate of the potential liability is not quantifiable for a number of reasons, including the difficulty in determining the extent of contamination and the length of time remediation may require. In addition, any estimate of liability must also consider the number of other PRPs and their financial strength. In July 2014, Arsynco received notice from the U.S. Department of Interior (“USDOI”) regarding the USDOI’s intent to perform a Natural Resource Damage (NRD) Assessment at the BCSA. Arsynco has to date declined to participate in the development and performance of the NRD assessment process. Based on prior practice in similar situations, it is possible that the State may assert a claim for natural resource damages with respect to the Arsynco site itself, and either the federal government or the State (or both) may assert claims against Arsynco for natural resource damages in connection with Berry's Creek; any such claim with respect to Berry's Creek could also be asserted against the approximately 150 PRPs which the EPA has identified in connection with that site. Any claim for natural resource damages with respect to the Arsynco site itself may also be asserted against BASF, the former owners of the Arsynco property. In September 2012, Arsynco entered into an agreement with three of the other PRPs that had previously been impleaded into New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, et al. v. Occidental Chemical Corporation, et al., Docket No. ESX-L-9868-05 (the \"NJDEP Litigation\") and were considering impleading Arsynco into the same proceeding. Arsynco entered into an agreement to avoid impleader. Pursuant to the agreement, Arsynco agreed to (1) a tolling period that would not be included when computing the running of any statute of limitations that might provide a defense to the NJDEP Litigation; (2) the waiver of certain issue preclusion defenses in the NJDEP Litigation; and (3) arbitration of certain potential future liability allocation claims if the other parties to the agreement are barred by a court of competent jurisdiction from proceeding against Arsynco. In July 2015, Arsynco was contacted by an allocation consultant retained by a group of the named PRPs, inviting Arsynco to participate in the allocation among the PRPs’ investigation and remediation costs relating to the BCSA. Arsynco declined that invitation. Since an amount of the liability cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, no accrual is recorded for these potential future costs. The impact of the resolution of this matter on the Company’s results of operations in a particular reporting period is not currently known.. 17. Our business, products or product pricing could be subject to negative publicity arising from the subpoena we recently received, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. In recent years, the generic pharmaceutical industry has been the subject of significant publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical products, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that the public has deemed excessive. Any downward pricing pressure on the price of our products arising from social or political pressure to lower the cost of pharmaceutical products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Accompanying the press and media coverage of pharmaceutical pricing practices and public complaints about the same, there has been increasing U.S. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. For instance, the United States Department of Justice has issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies seeking information about the sales, marketing and pricing of certain generic drugs. In connection with the DOJ’s ongoing investigation into marketing and pricing practices throughout the generic pharmaceutical industry, we received a subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the DOJ in April 2018. In addition to the substantial defense costs typically incurred in responding to a governmental subpoena and the effects of any investigations or claims brought against us as a result of this subpoena, our business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could also be materially adversely affected if any such inquiries, of us or of other pharmaceutical companies or the industry more generally, were to result in legislative or regulatory proposals that limit our ability to increase the prices of our products.. We are engaged in various civil suits which could be expensive to defend, which could divert our management’s attention and which, if determined adversely, could harm our reputation and have a material and negative affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. As described in Part I, Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” we are engaged in a number of civil suits that may occupy a substantial amount of our time, attention and resources. We and certain of our former and current executive officers have been named as defendants in securities actions filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. We have also been named as a defendant in an action by a supplier seeking damages and the termination of an existing supply agreement. While we plan to vigorously defend these actions, we may be unable to defend or settle these claims on favorable terms or at all, and there can be no assurance that additional claims will not be made by other shareholders, or shareholders as a class, and by other suppliers. We expect to incur significant expenses associated with the defense of the pending and any future securities laws claims or derivative suits (including, without limitation, substantial attorneys’ fees and other fees of professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify individuals who are or may become parties to such actions) as well as in the defense of the pending and any future legal proceedings with suppliers. An adverse determination, if one were to occur, could harm our reputation and have a material and negative affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We currently maintain “directors and officers” insurance policies with respect to the securities actions; however, our insurance coverage may not be adequate or available for us to avoid or limit our exposure in the pending actions or in future claims and adequate insurance coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost in the future. Additionally, securities and derivative claims, as well as legal proceedings with suppliers and business partners, may divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. The distribution and sale of some of our products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation.. Our products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including the Toxic Substances Control Act as well as regulations requiring registration and approval of many of our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Some of our products are subject to the EPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on our products and this may require us, on our behalf or in joint efforts with other registrants, to perform additional testing. Responding to such requirements may cause delays in or the cessation of the sales of one or more of our products which would adversely affect our profitability. We can provide no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that our resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance or that the economic benefit of complying with the requirement will exceed our cost.. 18. Incidents related to hazardous materials could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Portions of our operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although we are diligent in designing and implementing safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We are also continuing to expand our business in China and India, where environmental, health and safety regulations are still early in their development. As a result, we cannot determine how these laws will be implemented and the impact of such regulation on the Company.. Violations of cGMP and other government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture pharmaceutical products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the United States and other Aceto markets must be operated in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMP\") regulations as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Our suppliers’ facilities are subject to scheduled periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that we or one or more of our suppliers had materially violated these requirements could result in one or more regulatory sanctions, loss of a customer contract, disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of our suppliers’ facilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our business could give rise to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance or indemnity agreements or exceed insurance policy or indemnity agreement limitations.. The marketing, distribution and use of pharmaceutical and chemical products involve substantial risk of product liability claims. We could be held liable if any product we or our partners develop or distribute causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. A successful product liability claim that we have not insured against, that exceeds our levels of insurance or for which we are not indemnified, may require us to pay a substantial amount of damages. In the event that we are forced to pay such damages, this payment could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Rising insurance costs, as well as the inability to obtain certain insurance coverage for risks faced by us, could negatively impact profitability.. The cost of insurance, including directors and officers insurance, workers compensation, product liability and general liability insurance, has risen in recent years and may increase in the future. In response, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease certain coverage to mitigate these costs. These increases and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Additionally, certain insurance coverage may not be available to us for risks faced by us. Sometimes the coverage we obtain for certain risks may not be adequate to fully reimburse the amount of damage that we could possibly sustain. Should either of these events occur, the lack of insurance to cover our entire loss could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We source many of our products in China and changes in the political and economic policies of China’s government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in China and our financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Our business operations could be materially adversely affected by the current and future political environment in China. China has operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which companies, such as ours, must conduct business activities in China. China has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since 1988. The government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to conduct business in China could be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including, among others, those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under its current leadership, the government of China has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of China will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice.. 19. China’s laws and regulations governing our current business operations in China are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of China’s laws and regulations, including among others, the laws and regulations governing the conduct of business in China, or the enforcement and performance of arrangements with customers and suppliers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new laws or regulations may have on our business in China. If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of China’s laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, among other things: (i) levying fines and (ii) requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business in China.. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign businesses conducting business in China. While the trend of legislation over the last 20 plus years has significantly enhanced the protection of foreign businesses in China, there can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting China’s political, economic or social life, will not affect China’s government’s ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Our ability to compete in certain markets we serve is dependent on our ability to continue to expand our capacity in certain offshore locations. However, as our presence in these locations increases, we are exposed to risks inherent to these locations which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. A significant portion of our outsourcing has been shifted to India. As such, we are exposed to the risks inherent to operating in India including, among others, (1) a highly competitive labor market for skilled workers which may result in significant increases in labor costs as well as shortages of qualified workers in the future, and (2) the possibility that the U.S. federal government or the European Union may enact legislation which may disincentivize customers from producing in their local countries which would reduce the demand for the services we provide in India and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. A substantial portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate in their local currencies. Our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity therefore could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar.. Failure to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws regulating trade, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could result in adverse consequences, including fines, criminal sanctions, or loss of access to markets.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which, among other things, prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot assure you that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of events could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 20. Tax legislation and assessments by various tax authorities could be materially different than the amounts we have provided for in our consolidated financial statements.. We are regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits could result in proposed assessments. While we believe that we have adequately provided for any such assessments, future settlements could be materially different than we have provided for and thereby materially adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.. We operate in various tax jurisdictions, and although we believe that we have provided for income and other taxes in accordance with the relevant regulations, if the applicable regulations were ultimately interpreted differently by a taxing authority, we could be exposed to additional tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate is based on our expected geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”) was signed into law, which enacted various changes to the U.S. corporate tax law. These changes include, among others, a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits, limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, and a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain and is subject to developing interpretations of the provisions of the legislation, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries, and the filing of our tax returns. The Company will continue to evaluate the interpretations and assumptions made, guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the TCJA, which could materially change the amounts recorded in fiscal 2018 as new information becomes available. The final analysis of the transition tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the date of enactment. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including, among others, intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, from time to time, various legislative initiatives could be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In connection with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project, starting in 2017, companies may be required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of its tax audits to determine the appropriateness of its tax reserves. However, any tax authority could take a position on tax treatment that is contrary to the Company’s expectations, which could result in tax liabilities in excess of reserves.. Significant changes to the U.S. federal government’s trade policies, including new tariffs or the renegotiation or termination of existing trade agreements and/or treaties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We derive revenue from clients in many countries, and our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. The Trump administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has imposed and is considering imposing additional tariffs on certain foreign goods. We also rely on various U.S. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce. If we are subject to new regulations, or if restrictions and tariffs increase our operating costs in the future, and we are not able to recapture those costs from our customers, or if such initiatives regulations, restrictions and tariffs make it more difficult for us to compete in overseas markets, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity could be materially adversely impacted.. Our business is subject to a number of global economic risks.. From time to time, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have and could experience extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intending to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in values of certain assets.. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decrease in revenue that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Continued volatility and disruption of financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase our products or to pay for outstanding invoices owed to us or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in revenue or cash collections that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 21. Making interest and principal payments on our Convertible Senior Notes due 2020 (the “Notes”), which were issued in November 2015, requires and will continue to require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flows from our business to make future interest and principal payments.. Our ability to continue to make scheduled interest payments and to make future principal payments on the Notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flows from operations sufficient to service our debt. If we are unable to generate such cash flows, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including the Notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes that we issued in November 2015 or to repurchase such Notes upon a fundamental change, and our senior secured credit facility contains, and our future debt may contain, limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of such Notes.. Holders of our Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of certain fundamental events (each, a “fundamental change”) at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash upon conversions of notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes is limited by agreements governing our existing senior secured credit facility, and may be further limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture governing the Notes or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could, if not cured within applicable time periods, lead to a default under agreements governing our existing senior secured credit facility, and could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. Our senior secured credit facility limits our ability to pay any cash amount upon the conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. Our existing senior secured credit facility prohibits us from making any cash payments on the conversion or repurchase of the Notes if an event of default exists under that facility or if, after giving effect to such conversion or repurchase (and any additional indebtedness incurred in connection with such conversion or a repurchase), we would not be in pro forma compliance with our financial covenants under that facility. Any new credit facility that we may enter into in the future may have similar restrictions. Our failure to make cash payments upon the conversion or repurchase of the Notes as required under the terms of the Notes would permit holders of the Notes to accelerate our obligations under the Notes.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and liquidity.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. 22. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (“ASC 470-20”). Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the capital in excess of par value section of shareholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess are issued (which is the policy we intend to follow for settling such excess). If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in the future for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. We may need to raise additional capital to fund larger acquisitions and investments in the future which capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. Historically, acquisitions and investments in new products have been an important component of our growth strategy.  Larger acquisitions and investments would require us to raise additional capital.  Until we are able to reduce our debt obligations significantly, the September  2018 Amendment will restrict, if not eliminate, our ability to access the debt markets to fund the growth of our business. As a result, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.. If we are able to pursue an acquisition strategy in the future, that strategy will be subject to a number of inherent risks, including, among other things, the risk that our acquisitions may not be successful.. Any acquisitions that we are able to pursue in the future would be subject to inherent risks, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify the appropriate opportunities, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms, successfully integrate any acquired business, retain key employees, or achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the strategic alternative selected. Acquisitions can require significant capital resources and divert our management’s attention from our existing business. Additionally, we may issue additional shares in connection with a strategic transaction, thereby diluting the holdings of our existing common shareholders, incur debt or assume liabilities, become subject to litigation, or consume cash, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes.. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. We have experienced rapid growth in the past several years, including the acquisition of membership interests of PACK Pharmaceuticals, LLC in fiscal 2014 and the acquisition of certain generic products and related assets of entities formerly known as Citron Pharma LLC and its affiliate Lucid Pharma in fiscal 2017. This growth has required us to expand, upgrade, and improve our administrative, operational, and management systems, internal controls and resources. Failing to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. Any acquisition that we make could result in a substantial charge to our earnings.. We have previously incurred charges to our earnings in connection with acquisitions, and may continue to experience charges to our earnings for any acquisitions that we make, including, among other things, contingent consideration and impairment charges. These costs may also include substantial severance and other closure costs associated with eliminating duplicate or discontinued products, employees, operations and facilities. These charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and they could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 23. Changes in estimates regarding the fair value of intangible assets may significantly impact our profitability.. We have a significant amount of definite-lived intangible assets, In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we perform an impairment analysis when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on our impairment analysis, the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our information technology systems could fail to perform adequately or we may fail to adequately protect such information technology systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage its business data, supply chain, logistics, accounting, and other business processes and electronic communications between our personnel and our customers and suppliers. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity therefore could be materially adversely affected. In addition, security breaches or system failures of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information.. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with the upgrade and implementation of our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, our information technology systems and infrastructure. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions.. In recent years, we have implemented a new ERP system at all our global locations. The implementation of a new ERP system at our Rising subsidiary was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of implementations is extremely complex and we were required to address a number of challenges, including data conversion, system cutover and user training during the Rising implementation. We encountered operational problems during implementation, including delayed shipments, delays in billing and other operational issues. In addition, in automating processes that heretofore have been undertaken manually, we were required to reassess certain of our estimates, especially with respect to our rebates, returns and chargebacks approaches. While we believe that we have corrected or mitigated these issues, our fourth quarter results were negatively impacted. We have invested significantly in the operation and protection of data and information technology; however, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or identify breaches in our systems. Prolonged interruptions or significant breaches could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. 24. Our potential liability arising from our commitment to indemnify our directors, officers and employees could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. We have committed in our bylaws to indemnify our directors, officers and employees against the reasonable expenses incurred by these persons in connection with any action brought against them in such capacity, except in matters as to which they are adjudged to have breached a duty to us. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under this provision is unlimited. While we have ”directors and officers” insurance policies that should cover all or some of this potential exposure, we could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above our insurance limits. (See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings).. Our business could be materially adversely affected by terrorist activities.. Our business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce worldwide. Instability due to military, terrorist, political and economic actions in other countries could materially disrupt our overseas operations and export sales. In fiscal years 2018 and 2017, approximately 28% and 27%, respectively of our revenues were attributable to operations conducted abroad and to sales generated from the United States to foreign countries. In addition, in fiscal year 2018, approximately 61% and 15% of our purchases came from Asia and Europe, respectively. In addition, in certain countries where we currently operate or export, intend to operate or export, or intend to expand our operations, we could be subject to other political, military and economic uncertainties, including, among other things, labor unrest, restrictions on transfers of funds and unexpected changes in regulatory environments.. We have experienced turnover in our senior management, and the loss of key personnel or an ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel may result in operational inefficiencies that could negatively affect our business.. Our success depends upon the continued service of our talented management, as well as our key operational and technical employees, as well as upon our ability to continue to attract additional highly qualified personnel. We have recently experienced significant turnover in our senior management. In October 2017, William C. Kennally III replaced Salvatore Guccione as our chief executive officer. In October 2017, our chief financial officer, Douglas Roth, announced that he was retiring. He was replaced by Edward J. Borkowski, who served only briefly before accepting employment elsewhere. We have named Rebecca Roof to serve as our interim chief financial officer at a cost of two hundred fifty thousand dollars per month, payable to Ms. Roof’s employer AP Services LLC, an affiliate of AlixPartners LLP. In light of the significant challenges we are facing, we have also retained financial advisors to assist us in evaluating strategic options at considerable expense.. Shortage of qualified and technical personnel in a competitive marketplace may prevent us from growing our business.. We may be unable to hire or retain qualified and technical employees and there is substantial competition for highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be adversely impacted.. Litigation could harm our business and our management and financial resources.. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and could distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of our products or services could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on favorable terms.. The market price of our stock could be volatile.. The market price of our shares of common stock has fluctuated significantly from $15.45 to $3.35 from June 30, 2017 to June 29, 2018. The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and may continue to be volatile in the future, due to a variety of factors, including, among other things:. ·quarterly fluctuations in our operating income and earnings per share results. ·technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors. ·economic conditions. ·tariffs, duties and other trade barriers including, among other things, anti-dumping duties. ·disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights. ·changes in earnings estimates and market growth rate projections by market research analysts. 25. ·any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time. ·sales of common stock by existing security holders. ·loss of key personnel. ·securities class actions or other litigation. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations. Any failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.. Our stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility. The repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.. In May 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the continuation of the Company’s stock repurchase program, expiring in May 2020. Under the stock repurchase program, the Company is authorized, but not obligated, to purchase up to 5,000 shares of common stock in open market or private transactions, at prices not to exceed the market value of the common stock at the time of such purchase. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase the volatility of our common stock. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Although the stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, we cannot provide assurance that this will occur. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our common stock under the program.. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in preparing financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Any changes in the estimates, judgments and assumptions we use could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions, including accruals for chargebacks, rebates, returns, partnered products and other allowances, that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the reported amounts.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time-to-time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock and may also result in delayed filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.. 26. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure could result in additional expenses.. Complying with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including, among others, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, will require the Company to expend additional resources. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we may be required to continue to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment could result in increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities.. The expansion of social media platforms present new risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity.. The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website could seriously damage our reputation. Further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. If our non-public sensitive information is disclosed or if our reputation is seriously damaged through social media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and liquidity."
