[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. ACNB IS SUBJECT TO INTEREST RATE RISK.. ACNB's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond ACNB's control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest ACNB receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) ACNB's ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of ACNB's financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of ACNB's mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, ACNB's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on ACNB's results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. ACNB IS SUBJECT TO CREDIT RISK.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 56% of ACNB's loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because ACNB's loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. ACNB'S ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES MAY BE INSUFFICIENT.. ACNB maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of the following: industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and, unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires ACNB to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of ACNB's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review ACNB's allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Further, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, ACNB will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income, and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. COMPETITION FROM OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ACNB'S PROFITABILITY.. ACNB's banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in originating both commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, and other lenders. Many of its competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources with higher lending limits, wider geographic presence, more branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, and lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce the Corporation's net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that its banking subsidiary originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans.. In attracting business and consumer deposits, its banking subsidiary faces substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions, and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of ACNB's competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, wider geographic presence, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition, more branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, and lower origination and operating costs. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than ACNB, which could decrease the deposits that it attracts or require it to increase its rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect the subsidiary's ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, it may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase its cost of funds.. ACNB's banking subsidiary also competes with nonbank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and agencies, and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of its nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern ACNB's banking operations. As a result, such nonbank competitors may have advantages over ACNB's banking subsidiary in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit ACNB's margins on banking services, reduce its market share, and adversely affect its earnings and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. THE BASEL III CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS MAY REQUIRE ACNB TO MAINTAIN HIGHER LEVELS OF CAPITAL, WHICH COULD REDUCE ACNB'S PROFITABILITY.. Basel III targets higher levels of base capital, certain capital buffers, and a migration toward common equity as the key source of regulatory capital. Although the new capital requirements are phased in over future years and may change substantially before final implementation, Basel III signals a growing effort by domestic and international bank regulatory agencies to require financial institutions, including depository institutions, to maintain higher levels of capital. The direction of the Basel III implementation activities or other regulatory viewpoints could require additional capital to support the Corporation's business risk profile prior to final implementation of the Basel III standards. If ACNB and the subsidiary bank are required to maintain higher levels of capital, ACNB and the subsidiary bank may have fewer opportunities to invest capital into interest-earning assets, which could limit the profitable business operations available to ACNB and the subsidiary bank and adversely impact ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. THE CORPORATION'S OPERATIONS OF ITS BUSINESS, INCLUDING ITS TRANSACTIONS WITH CUSTOMERS, ARE INCREASINGLY DONE VIA ELECTRONIC MEANS, AND THIS HAS INCREASED ITS RISKS RELATED TO CYBERSECURITY.. The Corporation is exposed to the risk of cyberattacks in the normal course of business. In addition, the Corporation is exposed to cyberattacks on vendors and merchants that affect the Corporation and its customers. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. The Corporation has observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. To combat against these attacks, policies and procedures are in place to prevent or limit the effect of the possible security breach of its information systems. While ACNB maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. While the Corporation has not incurred any material losses related to cyberattacks, nor is it aware of any specific or threatened cyber incidents as of the date of this report, it may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if it falls victim to successful cyberattacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; disruption or failures of physical infrastructure, operating systems or networks that support ACNB's business and customers resulting in the loss of customers and business opportunities; additional regulatory scrutiny and possible regulatory penalties; litigation; and, reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.. ACNB'S CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES MAY FAIL OR BE CIRCUMVENTED.. Management regularly reviews and updates ACNB's internal controls, disclosure controls, and procedures, as well as corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of ACNB's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. ACNB'S ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS DEPENDS PRIMARILY ON DIVIDENDS FROM ITS BANKING SUBSIDIARY, WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATORY LIMITS AND THE BANKING SUBSIDIARY PERFORMANCE.. ACNB is a financial holding company and its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Its ability to pay dividends depends on its receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividend payments from its banking subsidiary are subject to legal and regulatory limitations, generally based on net profits and retained earnings, imposed by the various banking regulatory agencies. The ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures, and other cash flow requirements. There is no assurance that its subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in the future or that ACNB will generate adequate cash flow to pay dividends in the future. ACNB's failure to pay dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its common stock.. ACNB'S PROFITABILITY DEPENDS SIGNIFICANTLY ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND THE STATE OF MARYLAND.. ACNB's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the State of Maryland, and the specific local markets in which ACNB operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, ACNB provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the southcentral Pennsylvania and northern Maryland region of the country. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for ACNB's products and services, as well as the ability of ACNB's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing the loans, and the stability of ACNB's deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. THE EARNINGS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES ARE SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.. ACNB's operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which ACNB operates, all of which are beyond ACNB's control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a decrease in demand for ACNB's products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. The regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives in the United States and elsewhere, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it.. Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reforms the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Dodd-Frank requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous rules and regulations. Because the federal agencies are granted broad discretion in drafting these rules and regulations, many of the details and the impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for many months or years.. While much of how Dodd-Frank and other financial industry reforms will change ACNB's current business operations depends on the specific regulatory reforms and interpretations, many of which have. 18. Table of Contents. yet to be released or finalized, it is clear that the reforms, both under Dodd-Frank and otherwise, will have a significant effect on the entire industry. Although Dodd-Frank and other reforms will affect a number of the areas in which ACNB does business, it is not clear at this time the full extent of the adjustments that will be required and the extent to which ACNB will be able to adjust its businesses in response to the requirements. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, ACNB believes compliance with Dodd-Frank and implementing its regulations and initiatives will negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and it may also limit ACNB's ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. NEW LINES OF BUSINESS OR NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY SUBJECT ACNB TO ADDITIONAL RISKS.. From time to time, ACNB may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, ACNB may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of ACNB's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products or services could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. ACNB MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN SKILLED PEOPLE.. ACNB's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by ACNB can be intense, and ACNB may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of ACNB's key personnel could have a material adverse impact on ACNB's business because the Corporation would no longer have the benefit of their skills, knowledge of ACNB's market, as well as years of industry experience, and it would be difficult to promptly find qualified replacement personnel. ACNB and/or one of its subsidiaries currently has employment agreements, including covenants not to compete, with the following named executive officers: its President & Chief Executive Officer; Executive Vice President/Secretary & Chief Governance Officer; Executive Vice President/Treasurer & Chief Financial Officer; the President & Chief Executive Officer of Russell Insurance Group, Inc.; and, the Executive Vice President/Chief Lending & Revenue Officer of ACNB Bank.. ACNB IS SUBJECT TO CLAIMS AND LITIGATION PERTAINING TO FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY.. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to ACNB's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to ACNB's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to ACNB, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of ACNB and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. THE TRADING VOLUME IN ACNB'S COMMON STOCK IS LESS THAN THAT OF OTHER LARGER FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES.. ACNB's common stock trades on NASDAQ, and the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of ACNB's common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which ACNB has no control. Given the lower trading volume of ACNB's common stock, significant sales of ACNB's common stock, and the expectation of these sales, could cause ACNB's stock price to fall.. ACNB OPERATES IN A HIGHLY REGULATED ENVIRONMENT AND MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS.. ACNB, primarily through its banking subsidiary, is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and/or examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on ACNB and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect ACNB's powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank and financial holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. Like other financial holding companies and financial institutions, ACNB must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Under these laws, ACNB is required, among other things, to enforce a customer identification program and file currency transaction and suspicious activity reports with the federal government. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws or make required reports. While ACNB has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. THE SOUNDNESS OF OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ACNB.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. ACNB has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose ACNB to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or customer. In addition, ACNB's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by ACNB cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit exposure due to ACNB. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. MARKET VOLATILITY MAY HAVE MATERIALLY ADVERSE EFFECTS ON ACNB'S LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. Over the last several years, in some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices, and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If the market disruption and volatility returns, there can be no assurance that ACNB will not. 20. Table of Contents. experience adverse effects, which may be material, on its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. ACNB MAY NEED OR BE COMPELLED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE WHICH COULD DILUTE SHAREHOLDERS OR BE UNAVAILABLE WHEN NEEDED OR AT UNFAVORABLE TERMS.. ACNB's regulators or market conditions may require it to increase its capital levels. If ACNB raises capital through the issuance of additional shares of its common stock or other securities, it would likely dilute the ownership interests of current investors and would likely dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of its common stock. Furthermore, it may have an adverse impact on ACNB's stock price. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to ACNB's current shareholders, which may adversely impact its current shareholders. ACNB's ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside its control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, ACNB cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital on terms and/or in time frames acceptable to it, or to raise additional capital at all. If ACNB cannot raise additional capital in sufficient amounts when needed, its ability to comply with regulatory capital requirements could be materially impaired. Additionally, the inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts may adversely affect ACNB's operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. ACNB'S FUTURE ACQUISITIONS COULD DILUTE SHAREHOLDER OWNERSHIP AND MAY CAUSE IT TO BECOME MORE SUSCEPTIBLE TO ADVERSE ECONOMIC EVENTS.. ACNB may use its common stock to acquire other companies or make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. ACNB may also issue additional shares of common stock to pay for future acquisitions, which would dilute current investors' ownership interest in ACNB. Future business acquisitions could be material to ACNB, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into ACNB could have a material effect on the value of ACNB's common stock. In addition, any acquisition could require it to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, ACNB could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.. PENNSYLVANIA BUSINESS CORPORATION LAW AND VARIOUS ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS UNDER ACNB'S ARTICLES AND BYLAWS COULD IMPEDE THE TAKEOVER OF ACNB.. Various Pennsylvania laws affecting business corporations may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire ACNB, even if the acquisition would be advantageous to shareholders. In addition, ACNB has various anti-takeover measures in place under its articles of incorporation and bylaws, including a supermajority vote requirement for mergers, a staggered Board of Directors, and the absence of cumulative voting. Any one or more of these measures may impede the takeover of ACNB without the approval of the Board of Directors and may prevent shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which they could realize a premium over the current market price of ACNB common stock.. IF ACNB CONCLUDES THAT THE DECLINE IN VALUE OF ANY OF ITS INVESTMENT SECURITIES IS AN OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENT, ACNB IS REQUIRED TO WRITE DOWN THE VALUE OF THAT SECURITY THROUGH A CHARGE TO EARNINGS.. ACNB reviews its investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of its investment securities has declined below its carrying value, ACNB is required to assess whether the decline is an other-than-temporary impairment. If ACNB determines that the decline is an other-than-temporary. 21. Table of Contents. impairment, it is required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings for credit related impairment. Non-credit related reductions in the value of a security do not require a write down of the value through earnings unless ACNB intends to, or is required to, sell the security. Changes in the expected cash flows related to the credit related piece of the investment of a security in ACNB's investment portfolio or a prolonged price decline may result in ACNB's conclusion in future periods that an impairment is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the security to fair value. Due to the complexity of the calculations and assumptions used in determining whether an asset has an impairment that is other than temporary, the impairment disclosed may not accurately reflect the actual impairment in the future.. ACNB IS SUBJECT TO POTENTIAL IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES.. ACNB has certain long-lived assets including purchased intangible assets subject to amortization and associated goodwill assets which are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the statement of condition and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.. Goodwill, which has an indefinite useful life, is evaluated pursuant to ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, for impairment annually and is evaluated for impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset's fair value. The goodwill impairment analysis currently used by the Corporation is a two-step test. The first step, used to identify potential impairment, involves comparing the reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. If required, the second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for the reporting unit for which the first step indicated potential impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner similar to the amount of goodwill calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to a group of likely buyers whose cash flow estimates could differ from those of the reporting entity, as determined in the first step, over the aggregate estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the reporting unit, there is no impairment. If the carrying value of goodwill assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. Subsequent reversal of goodwill impairment losses is not permitted. ACNB performs an annual evaluation to determine if there is goodwill impairment. Further, a new FASB update eliminates the second step test, thus basing impairment on the estimated fair value to the carrying value including goodwill.. ACNB IS SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY RISK ASSOCIATED WITH LENDING ACTIVITIES.. A significant portion of ACNB's banking subsidiary loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, ACNB may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, ACNB may be liable for remediation costs, as. 22. Table of Contents. well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require ACNB to incur substantial expense and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit ACNB's ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase ACNB's exposure to environmental liability. Although ACNB has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. THE SEVERITY AND DURATION OF A FUTURE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN AND THE COMPOSITION OF THE BANKING SUBSIDIARY'S LOAN PORTFOLIO COULD IMPACT THE LEVEL OF LOAN CHARGE-OFFS AND THE PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES AND MAY AFFECT ACNB'S NET INCOME OR LOSS.. Lending money is a substantial part of ACNB's business through its banking subsidiary. However, every loan that ACNB makes carries a certain risk of non-payment. ACNB cannot assure that its allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb actual loan losses. ACNB also cannot assure that it will not experience significant losses in its loan portfolio that may require significant increases to the allowance for loan losses in the future.. Although ACNB evaluates every loan that it makes against its underwriting criteria, ACNB may experience losses by reasons of factors beyond its control. Some of these factors include changes in market conditions affecting the value of real estate and unexpected problems affecting the creditworthiness of ACNB's borrowers.. ACNB determines the adequacy of its allowance for loan losses by considering various factors, including:. <U+0095> An analysis of the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans;    <U+0095> Previous loan loss experience;    <U+0095> Specific loans that would have loan loss potential;    <U+0095> Delinquency trends;    <U+0095> Estimated fair value of the underlying collateral;    <U+0095> Current economic conditions;    <U+0095> The views of ACNB's regulators;    <U+0095> Reports of internal auditors;    <U+0095> Reports of external auditors;    <U+0095> Reports of loan reviews conducted by independent organizations; and,    <U+0095> Geographic and industry loan concentrations.. Local economic conditions could impact the loan portfolio of ACNB. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values, or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities ACNB serves. Weakness in the market areas served by ACNB could depress the Corporation's earnings and, consequently, its financial condition because:. <U+0095> Borrowers may not be able to repay their loans;    <U+0095> The value of the collateral securing ACNB's loans to borrowers may decline; and/or,    <U+0095> The quality of ACNB's loan portfolio may decline.. 23. Table of Contents. Although, based on the aforementioned procedures implemented by ACNB, management believes the current allowance for loan losses is adequate, ACNB may have to increase its provision for loan losses should local economic conditions deteriorate which could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations.. CHANGES IN REAL ESTATE VALUES MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT ACNB'S BANKING SUBSIDIARY LOANS THAT ARE SECURED BY REAL ESTATE.. A significant portion of ACNB's banking subsidiary loan portfolio consists of residential and commercial mortgages, as well as consumer loans, secured by real estate. These properties are concentrated in Adams County, Pennsylvania. Real estate values and real estate markets generally are affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in the tax laws and other government statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline, particularly in ACNB's market area, the value of the real estate collateral securing ACNB's loans could be reduced. This reduction in the value of the collateral could increase the number of non-performing loans and could have a material adverse impact on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. ACNB'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY.. ACNB relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in ACNB's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While ACNB has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Although ACNB maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of ACNB's information systems could damage ACNB's reputation adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, result in a loss of customer business, subject ACNB to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible regulatory penalties, or expose ACNB to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. ACNB CONTINUALLY ENCOUNTERS TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. ACNB's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in ACNB's operations. Many of ACNB's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. ACNB may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on ACNB's business and, in turn, ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPANIES DEPEND ON THE ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS OF INFORMATION ABOUT CUSTOMERS AND COUNTERPARTIES.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, ACNB may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. ACNB may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on ACNB's business and, in turn, ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. CONSUMERS MAY DECIDE NOT TO USE BANKS TO COMPLETE THEIR FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation\", could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. FUTURE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT SECONDARY SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY.. In addition to primary sources of liquidity in the form of deposits and principal and interest payments on outstanding loans and investments, ACNB maintains secondary sources that provide it with additional liquidity. These secondary sources include secured and unsecured borrowings from sources such as the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, and third-party commercial banks. However, market liquidity conditions have been negatively impacted by past disruptions in the capital markets and could, in the future, have a negative impact on ACNB's secondary sources of liquidity.. SEVERE WEATHER, NATURAL DISASTERS, ACTS OF WAR OR TERRORISM, AND OTHER EXTERNAL EVENTS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT ACNB'S BUSINESS.. The unpredictable nature of events such as severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on ACNB's ability to conduct business. If any of its financial, accounting, network or other information processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings due to external events, ACNB could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which ACNB does business could also be sources of operational risk to ACNB, including the risk that the third parties' own network and information processing systems could fail. Any of these occurrences could materially diminish ACNB's ability to operate one or more of the Corporation's businesses, or result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect ACNB. Such events could affect the stability of ACNB's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, impair ACNB's liquidity, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause ACNB to incur additional expenses.. ACNB may be subject to disruptions or failures of the financial, accounting, network and/or other information processing systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond ACNB's control,. 25. Table of Contents. which may include, for example, computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics, damage to property or physical assets, or terrorist acts. ACNB has developed a comprehensive business continuity plan which includes plans to maintain or resume operations in the event of an emergency, such as a power outage or disease pandemic, and contingency plans in the event that operations or systems cannot be resumed or restored. The business continuity plan is updated as needed, periodically reviewed, and components are regularly tested. ACNB also reviews and evaluates the business continuity plans of critical third-party service providers. While ACNB believes its business continuity plan and efforts to evaluate the business continuity plans of critical third-party service providers help mitigate risks, disruptions or failures affecting any of these systems may cause interruptions in service to customers, damage to ACNB's reputation, and loss or liability to the Corporation.. CHANGES IN CONTROL OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND ISSUES RELATING TO DEBT AND THE DEFICIT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE CORPORATION.. The Republican Party controlling of the White House, as well as the Republican Party maintaining or losing control of both the House of Representatives and Senate of the United States in the next congressional election, could result in significant changes or uncertainty in governmental policies, regulatory environments, spending sentiment, and many other factors and conditions, some of which could adversely impact the Corporation's business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, as a result of past difficulties of the federal government to reach agreement over federal debt and issues connected with the debt ceiling, certain rating agencies placed the United States government's long-term sovereign debt rating on their equivalent of negative watch and announced the possibility of a rating downgrade. The rating agencies, due to constraints related to the rating of the United States, also placed government-sponsored enterprises in which the Corporation invests and receives lines of credit on negative watch, and a downgrade of the Unites States government's credit rating would trigger a similar downgrade in the credit rating of these government-sponsored enterprises. Furthermore, the credit rating of other entities, such as state and local governments, may also be downgraded should the United States government's credit rating be downgraded. The impact that a credit rating downgrade may have on the national and local economy could have an adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. ACNB'S BANKING SUBSIDIARY MAY BE REQUIRED TO PAY HIGHER FDIC INSURANCE PREMIUMS OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS EARNINGS.. Poor economic conditions and the resulting bank failures increased the costs of the FDIC and adversely impacted its Deposit Insurance Fund. Any additional bank failures may prompt the FDIC to increase its premiums or to issue special assessments. ACNB is generally unable to control the amount of premiums or special assessments that its banking subsidiary is required to pay for FDIC insurance. Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. FEDERAL INCOME TAX REFORM COULD HAVE UNFORESEEN EFFECTS ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law H.R. 1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.\" ACNB is still in the process of analyzing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and its possible effects on ACNB. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. There are also provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction. Financial statement impacts include adjustments for, among other things, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. While there are benefits, there is also substantial uncertainty regarding the details. 26. Table of Contents. of U.S. Tax Reform. The intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the Corporation's business and on holders of ACNB common shares is uncertain and could be adverse. ACNB anticipates that the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may be material to its business, financial condition, and results of operations.. THE INCREASING USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS PRESENTS NEW RISKS AND CHALLENGES AND THE INABILITY OR FAILURE TO RECOGNIZE, RESPOND TO, AND EFFECTIVELY MANAGE THE ACCELERATED IMPACT OF SOCIAL MEDIA COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY IMPACT ACNB'S BUSINESS.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Social media practices in the banking industry are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to ACNB's business. Consumers value readily-available information concerning businesses and their goods and services and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to ACNB's interests and/or may be inaccurate. The dissemination of information online could harm ACNB's business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information's accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording ACNB an opportunity for redress or correction.. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about ACNB's business, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, out-of-date information, and improper use by employees and customers. The inappropriate use of social media by ACNB's employees or customers could result in negative consequences such as remediation costs including training for employees, additional regulatory scrutiny, and possible regulatory penalties, litigation, or negative publicity that could damage ACNB's reputation adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.. A NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARD MAY REQUIRE ACNB TO INCREASE THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES AND MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON ACNB'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Corporation after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require ACNB to increase its allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data ACNB would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. Any increase in ACNB's allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on ACNB's financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATING TO THE ACQUISITION OF NEW WINDSOR BANCORP, INC. (NEW WINDSOR) BY ACNB CORPORATION. THE ACQUISITION MAY DISTRACT ACNB'S MANAGEMENT TEAM FROM THEIR OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES.. Continuing acquisition-related matters could cause the management of ACNB to focus their time and energies on matters related to the acquisition that otherwise would be directed to the Corporation's business and operations. Any such distraction on the part of management, if significant, could affect management's ability to service existing business, develop new business, and adversely affect the combined company's post-acquisition business and earnings.. POST-ACQUISITION INTEGRATION AND CHANGE OF ACNB'S HISTORICAL BUSINESS MODEL MAY FAIL TO ACHIEVE EXPECTED RESULTS.. The success of the transaction depends heavily on a smooth integration and post-acquisition operations of ACNB. Benefits of the transaction to shareholders may not be realized if the post-acquisition integration is not well executed or well received by each company's historical customers.. ACNB MAY FAIL TO REALIZE THE COST SAVINGS IT EXPECTED TO ACHIEVE FROM THE ACQUISITION.. The success of the acquisition depends, in part, on ACNB's ability to realize the estimated cost savings from combining the businesses of ACNB and New Windsor. While ACNB believes that the cost savings estimates are achievable, it is possible that the potential cost savings could be more difficult to achieve than ACNB anticipated. ACNB's cost savings estimates also depend on its ability to combine the businesses of ACNB and New Windsor in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If ACNB's estimates are incorrect or it is unable to combine the two successfully, the anticipated cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS MAY DISRUPT THE CORPORATION'S BUSINESS AND DILUTE SHAREHOLDER VALUE.. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire and invest in banks and in other complementary businesses. As a result, we may engage in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short- and long-term liquidity and capital structure. Our acquisition activities could be material to us. For example, we could issue additional shares of common stock in a purchase transaction, which could dilute current shareholders' ownership interest. These activities could require us to use a substantial amount of cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized. Any potential charges for impairment related to goodwill would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity but would decrease shareholders' equity.. Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of:. <U+0095> incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions;     <U+0095> using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or its assets;. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;    <U+0095> creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and    <U+0095> losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received.. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value.. RISKS RELATED TO THE WEALTH MANAGEMENT AND INSURANCE INDUSTRIES. REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY FROM OUR WEALTH MANAGEMENT BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY REDUCTION IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION AS A RESULT OF EITHER A DECLINE IN MARKET VALUE OF SUCH ASSETS OR NET OUTFLOWS, WHICH COULD REDUCE TRUST, INVESTMENT ADVISORY AND BROKERAGE AND OTHER SERVINGS FEES EARNED.. The wealth management business derives the majority of its revenue from noninterest income which consists of trust, investment advisory and brokerage and other servicing fees. Substantial revenues are generated from investment management contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment advisory fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Assets under management and supervision may decline for various reasons including declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed or supervised, which could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in specific market segments. Assets under management may also decrease due to redemptions and other withdrawals by clients or termination of contracts. This could be in response to adverse market conditions or in pursuit of other investment opportunities.. THE WEALTH MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION, SUPERVISION AND EXAMINATION BY REGULATORS, AND ANY ENFORCEMENT ACTION OR ADVERSE CHANGES IN THE LAWS OR REGULATIONS GOVERNING OUR BUSINESS COULD DECREASE OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY.. The wealth management business is subject to regulation by a number of regulatory agencies that are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of customers participating in those markets. In the event of non-compliance with an applicable regulation, governmental regulators, including the SEC, and FINRA, may institute administrative or judicial proceedings that may result in censure, fines, civil penalties, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the deregistration or suspension of the non-compliant broker-dealer or investment adviser or other adverse consequences. The imposition of any such penalties or orders could have a material adverse effect on the wealth management segment's operating results and financial condition. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations. Regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs, which could adversely impact our profitability.. REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY FROM OUR INSURANCE BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MARKET CONDITIONS, WHICH COULD REDUCE INSURANCE COMMISSIONS AND FEES EARNED.. The revenues of our fee based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time. 29. Table of Contents. increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell. Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market and macro economic conditions on insurance premiums, commission levels may vary. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may adversely impact our profitability."
