[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors, and those risk factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other filings with the SEC, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Further, the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, profitability, cash flows, liquidity, or stock price.. If we do not consistently deliver popular, high-quality content in a timely manner, or if consumers prefer competing products, our business may be negatively impacted.. Consumer preferences for games are usually cyclical and difficult to predict, and even the most successful content remains popular for only limited periods of time, unless refreshed with new content or otherwise enhanced. In order to remain competitive, we must continuously develop new products or enhancements to our existing products. These products or enhancements may not be well-received by consumers, even if well-reviewed and of high quality. Further, competitors may develop content that imitates or competes with our best-selling games, potentially taking sales away from them or reducing our ability to charge the same prices we have historically charged for our products. These competing products may take a larger share of consumer spending than anticipated, which could cause product sales to fall below expectations. If we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well-received games, if our marketing fails to resonate with our consumers, if consumers lose interest in a genre of games we produce, if the use of cross-promotion within our mobile games to retain consumers becomes less effective, or if our competitors develop more successful products or offer competitive products at lower prices, our revenues and profit margins could decline. Further, a failure by us to develop a high-quality product, or our development of a product that is otherwise not well-received, could potentially result in additional expenditures to respond to consumer demands, harm our reputation, and increase the likelihood that our future products will not be well-received. The increased importance of downloadable content to our business amplifies these risks, as downloadable content for poorly-received games typically generates lower-than-expected sales. In addition, our own best-selling products could compete with our other games, reducing sales for those other games.. Additionally, consumer expectations regarding the quality, performance and integrity of our products and services are high. Consumers may be critical of our brands, games, services and/or business practices for a wide variety of reasons, and such negative reactions may not be foreseeable or within our control to manage effectively. For example, if our games or services, such as our proprietary online gaming service, do not function as consumers expect, whether because they fail to function as advertised or otherwise, our sales may suffer. The risk that this may occur is particularly pronounced with respect to our games with online features because they involve ongoing consumer expectations, which we may not be able to consistently satisfy. Our games with online features are also frequently updated, increasing the risk that a game may contain significant \"bugs.\" If any of these issues occur, consumers may stop playing the game and may be less likely to return to the game as often in the future, which may negatively impact our business.. Further, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could negatively impact our business on our revenues and reputation and could cause our results of operations to be materially different from expectations. If we fail to release our products in a timely manner, or if we are unable to continue to extend the life of existing games by adding features and functionality that will encourage continued engagement with the game, our business may be negatively impacted.. 12. Table of Contents. Additionally, the amount of lead time and cost involved in the development of high-quality products is increasing, and the longer the lead time involved in developing a product and the greater the allocation of financial resources to such product, the more critical it is that we accurately predict consumer demand for such product. If our future products do not achieve expected consumer acceptance or generate sufficient revenues upon introduction, we may not be able to recover the substantial up-front development and marketing costs associated with those products.. We depend on a relatively small number of franchises for a significant portion of our revenues and profits.. We follow a franchise model and a significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from products based on a relatively small number of popular franchises. These products are responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, revenues associated with the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and Overwatch franchises, collectively, accounted for approximately 66% of our net revenues - and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income - for 2017. We expect that a relatively limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our revenues and profits. Due to this dependence on a limited number of franchises, the failure to achieve anticipated results by one or more products based on these franchises could negatively impact our business. Additionally, if the popularity of a franchise declines, we may have to write off the unrecovered portion of the underlying intellectual property assets, which could negatively impact our business.. We may be unable to effectively manage the continued growth in the scope and complexity of our business, including our expansion into new business models that are untested and into adjacent business opportunities with large, established competitors.. We have experienced significant growth in the scope and complexity of our business, including through the acquisition of King and the development of our MLG, Studios and consumer products businesses, and remain ambitious as to the future growth in the scope and complexity of our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to manage this expanded business and our aspirations for continued expansion. We have dedicated resources both to new business models that are largely untested, as is the case with esports, and to adjacent business opportunities in which very large competitors have an established presence, as is the case with our Studios and consumer products businesses. We do not know to what extent our future expansions will be successful. Further, even if successful, the growth of our business could create significant challenges for our management, operational, and financial resources, and could increase existing strain on, and divert focus from, our core businesses. If not managed effectively, this growth could result in the over-extension of our operating infrastructure, and our management systems, information technology systems, and internal controls and procedures may not be adequate to support this growth. Failure to adequately manage our growth in any of these ways may cause damage to our brand or otherwise negatively impact our business. Further, any failure by these new businesses may damage our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our core business of interactive software products and entertainment content.. The increasing importance of free-to-play games to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including the dependence on a relatively small number of consumers for a significant portion of revenues and profits from any given game.. As a result of, among other things, the King Acquisition, we are more dependent on our ability to develop, enhance and monetize free-to-play games, such as the games in our Candy Crush franchise and Hearthstone. As such, we are increasingly exposed to the risks of the free-to-play business model. For example, we may invest in the development of new free-to-play interactive entertainment products that do not achieve significant commercial success, in which case our revenues from those products likely will be lower than anticipated and we may not recover our development costs. Further, if: (1) we. 13. Table of Contents. are unable to continue to offer free-to-play games that encourage consumers to purchase our virtual currency and subsequently use it to buy our virtual items; (2) we fail to offer monetization features that appeal to these consumers; (3) these consumers do not continue to play our free-to-play games or purchase virtual items at the same rate; (4) our platform providers make it more difficult or expensive for players to purchase our virtual currency; or (5) we cannot encourage significant additional consumers to purchase virtual items in our free-to-play games, our business may be negatively impacted.. Furthermore, as there are relatively low barriers to entry to developing mobile or online free-to-play or other casual games, we expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to developing and marketing competing games and applications. We compete, or may compete, with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch casual games and other content using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. Competition for the attention of consumers on mobile devices is intense, as the number of applications on mobile devices has been increasing dramatically, which, in turn, has required increased marketing to garner consumer awareness and attention. This increased competition could negatively impact our business. In addition, a continuing industry shift to free-to-play games could result in a deprioritization of our other products by traditional retailers and distributors.. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and if we do not adapt to, and appropriately allocate our resources among, emerging technologies and business models, our business may be negatively impacted.. Technology changes rapidly in the interactive entertainment industry. We must continually anticipate and adapt our products, distribution channels and business models to emerging technologies and delivery platforms in order to stay competitive. Forecasting our revenues and profitability for these new products, distribution channels and business models is inherently uncertain and volatile, and if we invest in the development of interactive entertainment products or distribution channels incorporating a new technology or for a new platform that does not achieve significant commercial success, whether because of competition or otherwise, we may not recover the often substantial \"up front\" costs of developing and marketing those products and distribution channels, or recover the opportunity cost of diverting management and financial resources away from other products or distribution channels. Further, our competitors may adapt to an emerging technology or business model more quickly or effectively than we do, creating products that are technologically superior to ours, more appealing to consumers, or both.. If, on the other hand, we elect not to pursue the development of products incorporating a new technology or for new platforms, or otherwise elect not to pursue new business models, that achieve significant commercial success, it may have adverse consequences. It may take significant time and resources to shift product development resources to that technology, platform or business model, as the case may be, and may be more difficult to compete against existing products incorporating that technology or for that platform or against companies using that business model.. The increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition.. The proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, continues to increase. The increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game, particularly a new game for mobile platforms, may be significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console or PC. Also, while digitally-distributed products generally have higher profit margins than retail sales, the risk profile for us, as the publisher, may be increased as business shifts to digital distribution, since the volume of initial orders from retailers for physical discs could be reduced.. 14. Table of Contents. Further, the providers of the platforms through which we digitally distribute content are also publishers of their own content distributed on those platforms, and, therefore, a platform provider may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors.. Competition within, and to, the interactive entertainment industry is intense, and competitors may succeed in reducing our sales.. Within the interactive entertainment industry, we compete with other publishers of interactive entertainment software, both within and outside the United States. Our competitors include very large corporations with significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we have. Our larger competitors may be able to leverage their greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources to provide larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties, as well as adopt more aggressive pricing policies to develop more commercially successful video game products than we do. In addition, competitors with large product lines and popular games typically have greater leverage with retailers, distributors and other customers, who may be willing to promote products with less consumer appeal in return for access to those competitors' more popular games.. Additionally, we compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. As our business continues to expand in complexity and scope, we have increased exposure to additional competitors, including those with access to large existing user bases and control over distribution channels. Further, it is difficult to predict and prepare for rapid changes in consumer demand that could materially alter public preferences for different forms of entertainment and leisure activities. Failure to adequately identify and adapt to these competitive pressures could negatively impact our business.. If we are unable to sustain traditional pricing levels for our products, our business may be negatively impacted.. If we are unable to sustain traditional pricing levels for our console or PC titles or the associated downloadable content, whether due to competitive pressure, because retailers or other third parties elect to price these products at a lower price, or otherwise, it could have a negative impact on our business. Further, our decisions around the development of new game content are grounded in assumptions about eventual pricing levels. If there is price compression in the market after these decisions are made, it could have a negative impact on our business.. If we do not continue to attract and retain skilled personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business.. Our employees are our greatest asset. As such, our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain, and utilize the abilities of qualified personnel, particularly personnel with the specialized skills needed to create and sell the high-quality, well-received content upon which our business is substantially dependent. Our industry is generally characterized by a high level of employee mobility, competitive compensation programs, and aggressive recruiting among competitors for employees with technical, marketing, sales, engineering, product development, creative, and/or management skills. We may have difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If we are unable to attract additional qualified employees or retain and utilize the services of key personnel, it could have a negative impact on our business.. 15. Table of Contents. We rely on external developers to develop some of our software products.. We rely on external software developers to develop some of our software products. Because we depend on these developers, we are subject to the following risks:. <U+0095> continuing strong demand for top-tier developers' resources, combined with the recognition they receive in connection with their work, may cause developers who worked for us in the past either to work for a competitor in the future or to renegotiate agreements with us on terms less favorable to us;     <U+0095> limited financial resources and business expertise and inability to retain skilled personnel may force developers out of business prior to completing products for us or require us to fund additional costs;    <U+0095> a competitor may acquire the business of one or more key developers or sign them to exclusive development arrangements and, in either case, we would not be able to continue to engage such developers' services for our products, except for any period of time for which the developer is contractually obligated to complete development for us; and     <U+0095> reliance on external developers reduces our visibility into, and control over, development schedules and operational outcomes compared to those when utilizing internal development resources.. Increased competition for skilled third-party software developers also has compelled us to agree to make significant advance payments on royalties to game developers. If the products subject to these arrangements do not generate sufficient revenues to recover these royalty advances, we would have to write off unrecovered portions of these payments, which could negatively impact our business. Typically, we pay developers a royalty based on a percentage of net revenues from product sales, less agreed upon deductions, but from time to time, we have agreed to pay developers fixed per unit product royalties after royalty advances are fully recouped. To the extent that sales prices of products on which we have agreed to pay a fixed per unit royalty are marked down, it could negatively impact our business.. We engage in strategic transactions and may encounter difficulties in integrating acquired businesses or otherwise realizing the anticipated benefits of the transactions.. As part of our business strategy, from time to time, we acquire, make investments in, or enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures with, complementary businesses. These transactions may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: (1) in the case of an acquisition, (i) the potential for the acquired business to underperform relative to our expectations and the acquisition price, (ii) the potential for the acquired business to cause our financial results to differ from expectations in any given period, or over the longer-term, (iii) unexpected tax consequences from the acquisition, or the tax treatment of the acquired business's operations going forward, giving rise to incremental tax liabilities that are difficult to predict, (iv) difficulty in integrating the acquired business, its operations and its employees in an efficient and effective manner, (v) any unknown liabilities or internal control deficiencies assumed as part of the acquisition, and (vi) the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses, and, (2) in the case of an investment, alliance or joint venture, (i) our ability to cooperate with our partner, (ii) our partner having economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and (iii) the potential that our partner may be unable to meet its economic or other obligations, which may require us to fulfill those obligations alone. Further, any such transaction may involve the risk that our senior management's attention will be excessively diverted from our other operations, the risk that our industry does not evolve as anticipated and that any intellectual property or personnel skills acquired do not prove to be those needed for our future. 16. Table of Contents. success, and the risk that our strategic objectives, cost savings or other anticipated benefits are otherwise not achieved.. Our debt could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $4.4 billion of long-term debt outstanding. Our debt burden could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund our operations, growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other general corporate purposes; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates with respect to any borrowings that are at floating rates of interest; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors who are less highly leveraged.. Agreements governing our indebtedness, including our credit agreement and the indentures governing our notes, impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios. In addition, under certain circumstances, our credit agreement and indentures may limit or prohibit other activities. In addition, we are required to maintain a maximum total net debt ratio calculated pursuant to a financial maintenance covenant under our credit agreement. Further, various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. Such a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under our credit agreement or the indentures governing our notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. There can be no assurances that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. We may not be able to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility if we are not able to meet the conditions to borrowing under that facility.. We view our revolving credit facility as a source of available liquidity. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We have not borrowed under the revolving credit facility to date, but if we wish to do so, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations at such time.. We may be involved in legal proceedings that have a negative impact on our business.. From time to time, we are involved in claims, suits, government investigations, audits and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property, competition and antitrust matters, privacy matters, tax matters, labor and employment matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance and commercial claims. In addition, negative consumer sentiment about our business practices may result in inquiries or investigations from. 17. Table of Contents. regulatory agencies and consumer groups, as well as litigation, which, regardless of their outcome, may be damaging to our reputation.. Claims, suits, government investigations, audits and proceedings are inherently difficult to predict and their results are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Regardless of the outcome, such legal proceedings can have a materially adverse impact on us due to legal costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, substantial settlements, judgments, fines or penalties, criminal sanctions, consent decrees or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products or services, requiring us to change our development process or other business practices.. There is also inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for these matters. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of these matters, including assessing the probability of potential outcomes and determining whether a potential exposure can be reasonably estimated. In making these determinations, we, in consultation with outside counsel, examine the relevant facts and circumstances on a quarterly basis assuming, as applicable, a combination of settlement and litigated outcomes and strategies. Further, it may take time to develop factors on which reasonable judgments and estimates can be based. If we fail to establish appropriate reserves, our business could be negatively impacted.. Issues with the toys, accessories or hardware peripherals utilized in certain of our games may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities.. We may experience issues with toys, accessories or peripherals that may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities. Any of these activities could result in increased governmental scrutiny, harm to our reputation, reduced demand by consumers for our products, decreased willingness by our customers to purchase, or by our partners to provide marketing support for, those products, denial or increased cost for insurance coverage, or additional safety and testing requirements, any of which could negatively impact our business.. Lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against publishers of interactive entertainment software products.. In prior years, lawsuits have been filed against numerous interactive entertainment companies, including against us, by the families of victims of violence, alleging that interactive entertainment products influence the behavior of the perpetrators of such violence. These lawsuits have been dismissed, but similar additional lawsuits could be filed in the future. Although our general liability insurance carrier has agreed to defend lawsuits of this nature with respect to the prior lawsuits, it is uncertain whether insurance carriers would do so in the future, or if such insurance carriers would cover all or any amounts for which we might be liable if such future lawsuits are not decided in our favor. Further, any such lawsuit could result in increased governmental scrutiny, harm to our reputation, reduced demand by consumers for our products, or decreased willingness by our customers to purchase, or by our partners to provide marketing support for, those products. Such results could divert development and management resources, increase legal fees and other costs and have other negative impacts on our business.. We are exposed to seasonality in the sale of our products.. The interactive entertainment industry is somewhat seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand occurring during the year-end holiday buying season in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. As a result, our sales have historically been highest during the second half of the year, particularly for. 18. Table of Contents. our Activision segment. Receivables and credit risk are likewise higher during the second half of the year, as retailers increase their purchases of our products in anticipation of the holiday season. Delays in development, approvals or manufacturing could affect the timing of the release of products, causing us to miss key selling periods such as the year-end holiday buying season, which could negatively impact our business.. Our business may be harmed if our distributors, retailers, development and licensing partners, or other third parties with whom we do business act in ways that put our brand at risk.. In many cases, our business partners are given access to sensitive and proprietary information or control over our intellectual property in order to provide services and support to our team. These third parties may misappropriate our information or intellectual property and engage in unauthorized use of it or otherwise act in a way that places our brand at risk. The failure of these third parties to provide adequate services and technologies, the failure of third parties to adequately maintain or update their services and technologies or the misappropriation or misuse of this information or intellectual property could result in a disruption to our business operations or an adverse effect on our reputation, and may negatively impact our business.. We use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business.. We use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. Were it determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games or products, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could negatively impact our business.. We may be subject to intellectual property claims.. As the number of interactive entertainment software products increases and the features and content of these products continue to overlap, software developers have increasingly become subject to infringement claims. Further, many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real-world things or people, which may also be the subject of claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others, including right of publicity, trademark, and unfair competition claims. In addition, our products often utilize complex, cutting-edge technology that may become subject to emerging intellectual property claims of others. Although we take steps to avoid knowingly violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may still claim infringement, particularly since there are many companies that focus exclusively on enforcing patent rights.. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether meritorious or not, may be time consuming, distracting to management and expensive to defend. Further, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following:. <U+0095> cease selling, incorporating, supporting or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095> obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property, which, if available at all, may not be available on commercially favorable terms;    <U+0095> redesign the affected interactive entertainment software products, which could result in additional costs, delay introduction and possibly reduce commercial appeal of the affected products; or    <U+0095> pay damages to the holder of the infringed intellectual property for past infringements.. Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying, and inadequate intellectual property laws and other protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technologies. We may also face legal risks arising out of user-generated content. Further, the use of unauthorized \"cheat\" programs or the use of other unauthorized software modifications by users could impact multiplayer gameplay or lead to reductions in microtransactions in our games.. We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a variety of methods, including a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary rights. We own or license various copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secrets. The process of registering and protecting these rights in various jurisdictions is expensive and time-consuming. Further, we are aware that some unauthorized copying occurs, and if a significantly greater amount of unauthorized copying of our software products were to occur, it could negatively impact our business.. Piracy is a persistent problem for us, and policing the unauthorized sale, distribution and use of our products is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming. Further, the laws of some countries in which our products are, or may be, distributed either do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or are poorly enforced. In addition, though we take steps to make the unauthorized sale, distribution and use of our products more difficult and to enforce and police our rights, as do the manufacturers of consoles and the operators of other platforms on which many of our games are played, our efforts and the efforts of the console manufacturers and platform operators may not be successful in controlling the piracy of our products in all instances. Technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used by console manufacturers and platform operators or by us in our products, the increasing availability of broadband access to the Internet, the refusal of Internet service providers to remove infringing content in certain instances and the ability to download pirated copies of games from various Internet sites and peer-to-peer networks could result in an expansion in piracy.. In addition, \"cheating\" programs or other unauthorized software tools and modifications that enable consumers to cheat in games could negatively impact the volume of microtransactions or purchases of downloadable content. In addition, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they run could be discovered after their release, which may result in lost revenue opportunities. This may lead to lost revenues from paying consumers or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could negatively impact our business.. We also cannot be certain that existing intellectual property laws will provide adequate protection for our products in connection with emerging technologies.. Due to our reliance on third-party platforms, platform providers are frequently able to influence our products and costs.. Generally, when we develop interactive entertainment software products for hardware platforms offered by Sony, Microsoft, or Nintendo, the physical products are replicated exclusively by that hardware manufacturer or their approved replicator. The agreements with these manufacturers include. 20. Table of Contents. certain provisions, such as approval rights over all software products and related promotional materials and the ability to change the fee they charge for the manufacturing of products, which allow the hardware manufacturers substantial influence over the cost and the release schedule of such interactive entertainment software products. In addition, because each of the manufacturers is also a publisher of games for its own hardware platforms and manufactures products for all of its other licensees, a manufacturer may give priority to its own products or those of our competitors. Accordingly, Sony, Microsoft, or Nintendo could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products, as well as increases to projected development, manufacturing, marketing or distribution costs, any of which could negatively impact our business.. The platform providers also control the networks over which consumers purchase digital products and services for their platforms and through which we provide online game capabilities for our console platform products. The control that the platform providers have over the fee structures and/or retail pricing for products and services for their platforms and online networks could impact the volume of purchases of our products made over their networks and our profitability. With respect to certain downloadable content and microtransactions, the networks provided by these platform providers are the exclusive means of selling and distributing this content. Further, increased competition for limited premium \"digital shelf space\" has placed the platform providers in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale. If the platform provider establishes terms that restrict our offerings on its platform, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, or does not renew our license or approve the inclusion of online capabilities in our console products, our business could be negatively impacted.. We also derive significant revenues from the distribution of free-to-play games on third-party mobile and web platforms such as the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store, and Facebook, and most of the virtual currency we sell is purchased using the payment processing systems of these platform providers. These platforms also serve as significant online distribution platforms for our games. If these platforms modify their current discovery mechanisms, communication channels available to developers, operating systems, terms of service or other policies (including fees), or they develop their own competitive offerings, our business could be negatively impacted. Further, if these platform providers are required to change how they label free-to-play games or take payment for in-app purchases or change how the personal information of consumers is made available to developers, our business could be negatively impacted.. Our business is highly dependent on the success and availability of video game platforms manufactured by third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as Sony's PS4, Microsoft's Xbox One, and Nintendo's Wii U and Switch. For example, sales of products for consoles accounted for 34% of our consolidated net revenues in 2017. The success of our console business is driven in large part by our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We also rely on the availability of an adequate supply of these video game consoles and the continued support for these consoles by their manufacturers. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform, and development costs for new console platforms may be greater than those costs for the then-current console platforms. If increased costs are not offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies, our business could be negatively impacted. If the platforms for which we develop new software products or modify existing products do not attain significant market acceptance, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could be significant.. 21. Table of Contents. The importance of retail sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model.. In the United States and Canada, our \"boxed\" products are often sold on a direct basis to mass-market retailers, consumer electronics stores, discount warehouses and game specialty stores. Our \"boxed\" products are sold internationally on a direct-to-retail basis, through third-party distribution and licensing arrangements, and through our wholly-owned European distribution subsidiaries. Our sales are made primarily on a purchase order basis without long-term agreements or other forms of commitments, and our retail customers and distributors have generally been reducing the levels of inventory they are willing to carry. The loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any of Activision's principal retail customers or distributors could have adverse consequences. In addition, having such a large portion of our retail total net revenues concentrated in a few customers reduces our negotiating leverage with these customers.. Further, the concentration of sales in a small number of large customers also makes us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers becomes unable to pay for our products or seeks protection under the bankruptcy laws. Retailers and distributors in the interactive entertainment industry have from time to time experienced significant fluctuations in their businesses and a number of them have failed. Challenging economic conditions may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased and, as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-off of accounts receivable could increase and, even if increased, may turn out to be insufficient. Moreover, even in cases where we have insurance to protect against a customer's bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation, this insurance typically contains a significant deductible and co-payment obligation, and does not cover all instances of non-payment. Further, the insolvency or business failure of other types of business partners could result in disruptions to the manufacturing or distribution of our products or the cancellation of contractual arrangements that we consider to be favorable. A payment default by, or the insolvency or business failure of, a significant business partner could negatively impact our business.. Moreover, the importance of retail sales to our business exposes us to the risk of product returns and price protection with respect to our distributors and retailers. In some cases, return policies allow distributors and retailers to return defective, shelf-worn, damaged and certain other products in accordance with terms granted. Price protection, when granted and applicable, allows these distributors and retailers a credit against amounts owed with respect to merchandise unsold by them. We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, distributors and retail customers who meet certain conditions. These conditions may include compliance with applicable payment terms, delivery of weekly inventory and sales information and consistent participation in the launches of premium title releases. We may also consider other factors, including the facilitation of slow-moving inventory and other industry factors. Activision also offers a 90-day limited warranty to end users that Activision products will be free from manufacturing defects. Although we maintain a reserve for returns and price protection, and although we may place limits on product returns and price protection, we could be forced to accept substantial product returns and provide substantial price protection to maintain our relationships with retailers and our access to distribution channels. We face similar issues and risks, including exposure to risk of chargebacks, with respect to end users to whom we sell products directly, whether through our proprietary online gaming service or otherwise.. Further, retailers typically have a limited amount of shelf space and promotional resources, and there is intense competition for high-quality retail shelf space and promotional support from retailers. Competition for shelf space may intensify and may require us to increase our marketing expenditures. Retailers with limited shelf space typically devote the most and highest quality shelf space to those products expected to be best sellers. We cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve such \"best seller\" status. Due to increased competition for limited shelf space, retailers and distributors are in an increasingly better position to negotiate favorable terms of sale, including price discounts, price protection, marketing and display fees and product return policies. Our products. 22. Table of Contents. constitute a relatively small percentage of most retailers' sales volume. We cannot be certain that retailers will continue to purchase our products or provide those products with adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support on acceptable terms.. Additionally, we make provisions for retail inventory price protection based upon certain assumed lowest prices and if competitive pressures force us to lower our prices below those levels, it could similarly have a negative impact on our business. Further, because we pay a licensing fee to the console hardware manufacturer for each physical copy of a product manufactured for that manufacturer's game platform regardless of whether that product is actually sold, if we overestimate demand and make too many physical \"boxed\" copies of any title, we will incur unrecoverable manufacturing costs for unsold units.. We are a global company and are subject to the risks and uncertainties of conducting business outside the U.S.. We conduct business throughout the world, and we derive a substantial amount of our revenues and profits from international trade, particularly from Europe, Asia and Australia. Moving forward, we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues and profits and, moreover, that sales in emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere will be an increasingly important part of our international sales. As such, we are, and may be increasingly, subject to risks inherent in foreign trade generally, as well as risks inherent in doing business in emerging markets, including increased tariffs and duties, compliance with economic sanctions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, shipping delays, increases in transportation costs, international political, regulatory and economic developments, unexpected changes to laws, regulatory requirements and enforcement on us and our platform partners and differing local business practices, all of which may impact profit margins or make it more difficult, if not impossible, for us to conduct business in foreign markets.. A deterioration in relations between either us or the United States and any country in which we have significant operations or sales, or the implementation of government regulations in such a country, could result in the adoption or expansion of trade restrictions, including economic sanctions, that could have a negative impact on our business. For instance, to operate in China, all games must have regulatory approval. A decision by the Chinese government to revoke its approval for any of our games or to decline to approve any products we desire to sell in China in the future could have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, in the past, legislation has been implemented in China that has required modifications to our software. The future implementation of similar laws or regulations in China or any other country in which we have operations or sales may restrict or prohibit the sale of our products or may require engineering modifications to our products that are not cost-effective, if even feasible at all, or could degrade the consumer experience to the point where consumers cease to purchase such products. Further, the enforcement of regulation of mobile and other games with an online element in China remains uncertain, and further changes, either in the regulations or their enforcement, could have a negative impact on our business in China.. We are also subject to risks that our operations outside the United States could be conducted by our employees, contractors, third-party partners, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act or other similar anti-bribery laws, as well as the 2017 U.K. Criminal Finances Act or other similar financial crime laws. While we have policies and procedures, as well as training for our employees, intended to secure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, third-party partners, representatives or agents may take actions that violate our policies. Moreover, it may be more difficult to oversee the conduct of any such persons who are not our employees, potentially exposing us to greater risk from their actions.. Additionally, in June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" The United. 23. Table of Contents. Kingdom commenced withdrawal proceedings with the E.U. in March 2017. These proceedings have created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the E.U., and this uncertainty may persist for years. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the level of sales of discretionary items, including our products. Any of these effects could negatively impact our business.. In addition, cultural differences may affect consumer preferences and limit the international popularity of games that are popular in the U.S, or require us to modify the content of the games or the method by which we charge our customers for the games to be successful. If we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in which we sell our products, or if the other risks discussed herein come to fruition, it could negatively impact our business.. Changes in tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact our business.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate income tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. Although we believe our income tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcomes may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.. Our income tax liability and effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in our business, the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or tax rulings, changes in interpretations of existing laws, or developments in tax examinations or investigations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. The E.U. and its member states, and a number of other countries are actively pursuing fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to multinational companies like us. Furthermore, tax authorities may choose to examine or investigate our tax reporting or tax liability, including under transfer pricing or permanent establishment theories. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our income taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions.. On December 22, 2017, tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"U.S. Tax Reform Act\") was enacted in the United States. The U.S. Tax Reform Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our financial position and effective tax rate. Accounting for the income tax effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act requires complex new calculations to be performed and significant judgments in interpreting the legislation. Additional guidance may be issued on how the provisions of the U.S. Tax Reform Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. Due to the timing of enactment and the complexity in determining the income tax effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. We may make adjustments to the provisional amounts as we collect and prepare the data necessary to finalize our calculations, interpret the U.S. Tax Reform Act and any additional guidance issued, and consider the effects of any additional actions we may take as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform Act. These adjustments could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which these adjustments are made.. In late 2017, we received a Notice of Reassessment from the French Tax Authority (\"FTA\") related to transfer pricing concerning intercompany transactions involving one of our French subsidiaries for the 2011 through 2013 tax years. We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to vigorously. 24. Table of Contents. contest it. We plan to pursue all remedies available to us to successfully resolve this matter, including administrative remedies with the FTA, and judicial remedies, if necessary. While we believe our tax provisions at December 31, 2017 are appropriate, until such time as this matter is ultimately resolved we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In addition to the risk of additional tax for years 2011 through 2013, if litigation regarding this matter were adversely determined and/or if the FTA were to seek adjustments of a similar nature for subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities.. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various other jurisdictions. Tax authorities regularly examine these non-income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations, changes in the business, changes in applicable tax rules or other tax matters may have a negative impact on our business.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could negatively impact our business.. We transact business in various currencies other than the U.S. dollar and have significant international sales and expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, subjecting us to currency exchange rate risks. A substantial portion of our international sales and expenses are denominated in local currencies, including euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona, which could fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. Since we have significant international sales, but incur the majority of our costs in the United States, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may have an asymmetric and disproportional impact on our business. We have, in the past, utilized currency derivative contracts to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures and managed these exposures with natural offsets. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue our hedging programs, or that we will be successful in managing exposure to currency exchange rate risks whether or not we do so.. Our games are subject to scrutiny regarding the appropriateness of their content. If we fail to receive our target ratings for certain titles, or if our retailers refuse to sell such titles due to what they perceive to be objectionable content, it could have a negative impact on our business.. Our console and PC games are subject to ratings by the Entertainment Software Rating Board (the \"ESRB\"), a self-regulatory body based in the U.S. that provides U.S. and Canadian consumers of interactive entertainment software with ratings information, including information on the content in such software, such as violence, nudity or sexual content, along with an assessment of the suitability of the content for certain age groups. Certain other countries have also established content rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. In addition, certain stores use other ratings systems, such as Apple's use of its proprietary \"App Rating System\" and Google Play's use of the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC) rating system. If we are unable to obtain the ratings we have targeted for our products, it could have a negative impact on our business. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of the rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of any given product, or may prevent its sale altogether in certain territories. Further, if one of our games is \"re-rated\" for any reason, a ratings organization could require corrective actions, which could include a recall, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold or returned copies or consumers could demand a refund for copies previously purchased.. Additionally, retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses, whether because a product received a certain rating by the ESRB or other content rating system, or otherwise. If retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally. 25. Table of Contents. objectionable content, we might be required to modify particular titles or forfeit the revenue opportunity of selling such titles with that retailer.. Further, throughout the history of the interactive entertainment industry, many interactive software products have included hidden content and/or hidden gameplay features, some of which have been accessible through the use of in-game codes or other technological means, that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. In some cases, such undisclosed content or features have been considered to be objectionable. While publishers are required to disclose pertinent hidden content during the ESRB ratings process, in a few cases, publishers have failed to disclose hidden content, and the ESRB has required the recall of the game, changed the rating or associated content descriptors originally assigned to the product, required the publisher to change the game or game packaging and/or imposed fines on the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such undisclosed content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them and demanding that their publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, some interactive entertainment software consumers have reacted to the revelation of undisclosed content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material, and, on at least one occasion, filing a lawsuit against the publisher of the product containing such content.. We have implemented preventive measures designed to reduce the possibility of objectionable undisclosed content from appearing in the interactive software products we publish. Nonetheless, these preventive measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. If an interactive software product we publish is found to contain undisclosed content, we could be subject to any of these consequences.. Our business, products, and distribution are subject to increasing regulation in key territories. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business could be negatively impacted.. Legislation is continually being introduced, and litigation and regulatory enforcement actions are taking place, that may affect the way in which we, and other industry participants, may offer content and features, and distribute and advertise our products. The video game industry continues to evolve, and new and innovative business opportunities are often subject to new attempts at regulation. Many foreign countries, such as China and Germany, have laws that permit governmental entities to restrict or prohibit marketing or distribution of interactive entertainment software products because of the content therein (and similar legislation has been introduced at one time or another at the federal and state levels in the United States). Further, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual items and currency may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens or limitations on operations of companies such as ours conducting business through the Internet and mobile devices. We are subject to laws and regulations related to protection of minors, consumer privacy, accessibility, advertising, taxation, payments, intellectual property, distribution, and antitrust, among others. Also, existing laws or new laws regarding the marketing of in-app purchases, regulation of currency, banking institutions, virtual currencies, unclaimed property, and money laundering may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods. Furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual items and currency may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens or limitations on operations of companies such as ours conducting business through the Internet and mobile devices. The adoption and enforcement of legislation that restricts the marketing, content, business model, or sales of our products in countries in which we do business may harm the sales of our products, as the products we are able to offer to our customers and the size of the potential market for our products may be limited. We may be required to modify certain product development processes or products or alter our marketing strategies to comply with regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our products. The laws and regulations affecting our products vary by territory and may be inconsistent with one another,. 26. Table of Contents. imposing conflicting or uncertain restrictions. Failure to comply with any applicable legislation may also result in government-imposed fines or other penalties, as well as harm to our reputation. Moreover, the public dialogue concerning interactive entertainment may have an adverse impact on our reputation and consumers' willingness to purchase our products. Because the King Acquisition has significantly increased our user population, it may subject us to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions and exacerbate the potential adverse impact on our business.. Although we have structured and operate our skill tournaments with applicable laws in mind, including any applicable laws relating to gambling, and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling, our skill tournaments could in the future become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. We also sometimes offer consumers of our online and casual games various types of contests and promotional opportunities. We are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. Further, some of our online games and other services include random digital item mechanics, which may become subject to regulations in various jurisdictions. If these were to occur, we might be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States, Europe, or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of casual game services and impair our business.. Change in government regulations relating to the Internet could negatively impact our business.. We rely on our consumers' access to significant levels of Internet bandwidth for the sale and digital delivery of our content and the functionality of our games with online features. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting \"net neutrality,\" could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of doing business. Although certain jurisdictions have implemented laws and regulations intended to prevent Internet service providers from discriminating against particular types of legal traffic on their networks, other jurisdictions may lack such laws and regulations or repeal existing laws or regulations. For example, on December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal net neutrality regulations in the U.S. Given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments, or repeal, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local Internet service providers and the relatively significant level of Internet bandwidth access our products and services require, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise negatively impact our business.. The laws and regulations concerning data privacy are continually evolving. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business.. Consumers play certain of our games online using third-party platforms and networks, through online social platforms, and on mobile devices. We collect and store information about our consumers of these games - both personally identifying and non-personally identifying information. We are subject to laws from a variety of jurisdictions regarding privacy and the protection of this information. For example, the E.U. has traditionally taken a broader view than the United States and certain other jurisdictions as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under data privacy regulations. The U.S. Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (\"COPPA\") also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. Failure. 27. Table of Contents. to comply with COPPA may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines.. Data privacy protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could impact our approach to operating and marketing our games. For example, the E.U.'s General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which will come into effect in May 2018, imposes a range of new compliance obligations for us and other companies with European users, and increases financial penalties for noncompliance significantly. Regulators have not yet issued clear guidance for many of these new compliance obligations. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, is continuing to review the need for greater regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the Internet and on mobile devices, and the E.U. has proposed reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, including the GDPR. Various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. In addition, in some cases, we are dependent upon our platform providers to solicit, collect and provide us with information regarding our consumers that is necessary for compliance with these various types of regulations.. Player interaction with our games is subject to our privacy policies, end user license agreements (\"EULAs\"), and terms of service. If we fail to comply with our posted privacy policies, EULAs, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, impact our financial condition and harm our business. If regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively impact our financial condition, and damage our business.. We depend on servers to operate our games with online features and our proprietary online gaming service. If we were to lose server functionality for any reason, our business may be negatively impacted.. Our business relies on the continuous operation of servers, some of which are owned and operated by third parties. Although we strive to maintain more than sufficient server capacity, and provide for active redundancy in the event of limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant service-disrupting attack or intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, a failure of disaster recovery service or the failure of a company on which we are relying for server capacity to provide that capacity for whatever reason would likely degrade or interrupt the functionality of our games with online features, and could prevent the operation of such games altogether, any of which could result in the loss of sales for, or in, such games. This risk is particularly pronounced with respect to the mobile games published by King, which rely on a small number of third-party owned data centers located in one city, or with respect to the functioning of our proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net, the disruption of which could prevent Blizzard from delivering content digitally or render all of Blizzard's games, as well as Destiny 2 PC content, unavailable.. We also rely on networks operated by third parties, such as the PlayStation Network, Xbox Live and Steam, for the sale and digital delivery of downloadable console and PC game content and the functionality of our games with online features. Similarly, we rely on the continued operation of the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store, and Facebook for the sale of virtual currency for our free-to-play games. An extended interruption to any of these services could adversely affect our ability to sell and distribute our digital products and operate our games with online features, negatively impacting our business.. 28. Table of Contents. Further, insufficient server capacity could also negatively impact our business. Conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs.. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant data breach or system or network disruption could negatively impact our business.. In the course of our day-to-day business, we and third parties operating on our behalf create, store, and/or use commercially sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our interactive entertainment software products and confidential information with respect to our customers, consumers, and employees. A malicious intrusion by hackers or other breach of the systems on which such source code and assets, account information (including personally identifiable information) and other sensitive data (including credit card information maintained in a proprietary database) is stored could lead to piracy of our software, fraudulent activity, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, our customers', consumers' or employees' personally identifiable information or our own sensitive business data. We have implemented programs intended to secure our data and systems and prevent unauthorized access to, or loss of, sensitive data. However, because these attacks may remain undetected for prolonged periods of time and the techniques used by criminal hackers and other third parties to breach systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. A data intrusion into a server for a game with online features or for our proprietary online gaming service could also disrupt the operation of such game or platform. If we are subject to data security breaches, or a security-related incident that materially disrupts the availability of our products and services, we may have a loss in sales or subscriptions or be forced to pay damages or incur other costs, including from the implementation of additional security measures, or suffer reputational damage. Additionally, while we maintain insurance policies, they may be insufficient to reimburse us for all losses or all types of claims that may be caused by data breaches or system or network disruptions. Moreover, if there were a public perception that our data protection measures are inadequate, whether or not the case, it could result in reputational damage and potential harm to our business relationships or the public perception of our business model. In addition, such data security breaches may subject us to legal claims or proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, especially if there is loss, disclosure, or misappropriation of, or access to, our customers' credit card or other sensitive or personally identifiable information.. Our reported financial results could be significantly impacted by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves.. Our reported financial results are impacted by the accounting policies promulgated by the SEC and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. Policies affecting revenue recognition have affected, and could further significantly affect, the way we report revenues related to our products and services. We recognize a majority of the revenues from bundled sales (i.e., video games that include an online service component) on a deferred basis over an estimated service period for such games. In addition, we defer the cost of revenues of those products. Further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, our estimate of the service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenues and taxes, could have a significant impact on our reported net revenues, net income and earnings per share under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States in any given period.. 29. Table of Contents. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware state law could delay or prevent a change of control.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain a provision regulating the ability of shareholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings. The regulations on shareholder action could make it more difficult for any person seeking to acquire control of the Company to obtain shareholder approval of actions that would support this effort. In addition, our Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of so-called \"blank check\" preferred stock. This ability of our Board of Directors to issue and fix the rights and preferences of preferred stock could effectively dilute the interests of any person seeking control or otherwise make it more difficult to obtain control.. Historically, our stock price has been highly volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors, including for example, but without limitation:. <U+0095> quarter-to-quarter variations in the results of our operations;    <U+0095> the announcement of new products;    <U+0095> the announcement of lower prices on competing products;    <U+0095> product development or release schedules;    <U+0095> general conditions in the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or in the worldwide economy;     <U+0095> announcements of developments in the overall worldwide market for interactive entertainment, including announcements of industry sales data;     <U+0095> the timing of the introduction of new platforms and delays in the actual release of new platforms;    <U+0095> hardware manufacturers' announcements of price changes for hardware platforms;    <U+0095> consumer acceptance of hardware platforms;    <U+0095> consumer spending trends;    <U+0095> the outcome of lawsuits or regulatory investigations in which we are, or may become, involved;    <U+0095> changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts;    <U+0095> sales or acquisitions of common stock by our directors or executive management; and    <U+0095> investor perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic position, and those of our competitors and customers.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. Our corporate headquarters and our primary corporate disaster center are located in the Los Angeles, California area and our primary corporate disaster recovery data center is in Las Vegas, Nevada, each of which is near a major earthquake fault. A major earthquake or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems, or otherwise prevents us from conducting our normal business operations, could require significant expenditures to resume operations and negatively impact our business. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with such events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Further, our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.. 30. Table of Contents. Any such event could also limit the ability of retailers, distributors or our other customers to sell or distribute our products.. If general economic conditions decline, demand for our products could decline.. Purchases of our products and services involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products and services like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result, our products are sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could result in an increase in our selling and promotional expenses, in an effort to offset that reduction, and could negatively impact our business.. 31. Table of Contents"
