[1] "Item 1a. Risk Factors. This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. See \"Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information\" included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These risks could adversely impact the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows and could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decrease. Such risks include, without limitation:. Risks Related to the Company's Strategy. General business, political, and economic conditions, including the strength of the construction market, political events, or other factors may affect demand for the Company's products and services.. The Company competes based on such factors as name recognition and reputation, quality, service, product features, innovation, and price. In addition, the Company operates in a highly competitive environment that is influenced by a number of general business and economic factors, such as economic vitality, employment levels, credit availability, interest rates, trends in vacancy rates and rent values, energy costs, and commodity costs. Sales of lighting and building management solutions depend significantly on the level of activity in new construction and renovation/retrofits. Declines in general economic activity, appropriations, and regulations, including tax policy, may negatively impact new construction and renovation projects, which in turn may impact demand for the Company's product and service offerings.. The Company's results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials, components, purchased finished goods, or services.. The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials and components in its production process including steel, aluminum, lamps, certain rare earth materials, LEDs, LED drivers, ballasts, wire, electronic components, power supplies, petroleum-based by-products, natural gas, and copper. The Company also sources certain finished goods externally. Future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect profitability, as there can be no assurance that future price increases will be successfully passed through to customers. The Company generally sources these goods from a number of suppliers. However, there are a limited number of suppliers for certain components and certain purchased finished goods, which on a limited basis results in sole-source supplier situations. Disruptions in the supply of those items could negatively impact the Company's performance. Suppliers for certain of those items are competitors of the Company that may, for various strategic reasons, choose to cease selling to the Company. In addition, the Company's ongoing efforts to improve the cost effectiveness of its products and services may result in a reduction in the number of its suppliers, and in turn, increased risk associated with reliance on a single or limited number of suppliers. Furthermore, volatility in certain commodities, such as oil, impacts all suppliers and, therefore, may cause the Company to experience significant price increases from time to time regardless of the number and availability of suppliers. Profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these component parts, including competitive, governmental, and legal limitations, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. Additionally, the Company is dependent on certain service providers for key operational functions. While there are a number of suppliers of these services, the cost to change service providers and set up new processes could be significant.. The Company's results may be adversely affected by its inability to maintain pricing.. Aggressive pricing actions by competitors, including those within the technology and services sectors, may affect the Company's ability to achieve desired revenue growth and profitability levels under its current pricing strategies. The Company may also decide to lower prices to match the competition. Additionally, the Company may not be able to increase prices to cover rising costs of components and raw materials. Even if the Company were able to increase prices to cover costs, competitive pricing pressures may not allow the Company to pass on any more than the cost increases. Alternatively, if component and raw material costs were to decline, the marketplace may not allow the Company to hold prices at their current levels.. The Company's inability to effectively introduce new products and solutions could adversely affect its ability to compete.. Continual introductions of new products and solutions, services, and technologies, enhancement of existing products and services, and effective servicing of customers are key to the Company's competitive strategy. The success of new product and solution introductions depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, timely and. 6. Table of Contents. successful product development, product quality, market acceptance, the Company's ability to manage the risks associated with product life cycles, such as additional inventory obsolescence risk as product life cycles begin to shorten, new products and production capabilities, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels to support anticipated product manufacturing and demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot fully predict the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on the Company's business. Additionally, new products and solutions may not achieve the same profit margins as expected and as compared to the Company's historic products and solutions.. The Company may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions, alliances, or investments, which may not yield anticipated benefits.. The Company has strengthened its business through strategic acquisitions, alliances, and investments and may continue to do so as opportunities arise in the future. Such investments have been and may be in start-up or development stage entities. The Company will benefit from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage and integrate the assets or capabilities of the acquired businesses and alliances, including, but not limited to, personnel, technology, and operating processes. Moreover, unanticipated events, negative revisions to valuation assumptions and estimates, diversion of resources and management's attention from other business concerns, and difficulties in attaining synergies, among other factors, could adversely affect the Company's ability to recover initial and subsequent investments, particularly those related to acquired goodwill and intangible assets or non-controlling interests. In addition, such investment transactions may limit the Company's ability to invest in other activities, which could be more profitable or advantageous.. The inability to effectively execute its business strategies could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Various uncertainties and risks are associated with the implementation of a number of aspects of the Company's global business strategies, including but not limited to, the development, marketing and selling of new products and solutions, new product development, the development, marketing, and selling of lighting, building management, and software-based solutions, effective integration of acquisitions, and the development of production capacity related to components such as LED drivers. Those uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to: diversion of management's attention; difficulty in retaining or attracting employees; negative impact on relationships with distributors and customers; obsolescence of current products and slow new product development; inability to effectively participate in the emerging opportunities of the Internet of Things (\"IoT\") utilizing the Company's digital lighting and building management systems; additional streamlining efforts; inability to produce certain components with quality, performance, and cost attributes equal to or better than provided by other component manufacturers; and unforeseen difficulties in the implementation of the management operating structure. Problems with strategy execution could offset anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality as well as adversely affect the Company. With the addition of new products and solutions, the Company may encounter new and different competitors that may have more experience with respect to such products and solutions.. The Company may experience difficulties in streamlining activities which could impact shipments to customers, product quality, and the realization of expected savings from streamlining actions.. The Company expects to benefit from its ongoing programs to streamline operations, including the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and the reduction of overhead costs. Such benefits will only be realized to the extent that the Company can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and operating processes in the transition of production between manufacturing facilities. Uncertainty is inherent within the facility consolidation process and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality.. Risks Related to the Company's Operations. Technological developments and increased competition could affect the Company's operating profit margins and sales volume.. The Company competes in an industry and markets where technology and innovation play major roles in the competitive landscape. The Company is highly engaged in the investigation, development, and implementation of new technologies and services. Securing key partnerships and alliances as well as employee talent, including having access to technologies, services, and solutions developed by others, and obtaining appropriate patents and the right to utilize patents of other parties all play a significant role in protecting the Company's freedom to operate and development activities. Additionally, the continual development of new technologies by existing and new source suppliers  -  including. 7. Table of Contents. non-traditional competitors with significant resources  -  looking for either direct market access or partnerships with competing large manufacturers, coupled with significant associated exclusivity and/or patent activity, could adversely affect the Company's ability to sustain operating profit margins and desirable levels of sales volume.. In addition, there have been a growing number of new competitors, from small startup companies to global electronics, technology, and software companies, which may vertically integrate and begin offering total solution packages that directly compete with the Company's offerings. Certain global and more diversified electrical manufacturers as well as certain global technology and building solution providers may be able to obtain a competitive advantage over the Company by offering broader and more integrated solutions utilizing electrical, lighting, controls, building automation systems, and data analytics, and small startup companies may offer more localized product sales and support services within individual regions.. The Company may be unable to sustain significant customer and/or channel partner relationships.. Relationships with customers are directly impacted by the Company's ability to deliver quality products and services. Although no individual customer exceeded 10% of sales during the current fiscal year, the loss of or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by certain larger customers could harm the Company in a meaningful manner. The Company has relationships with channel partners such as electrical distributors, home improvement retailers, independent sales agencies, system integrators, and value-added resellers. While the Company maintains positive, and in many cases long-term, relationships with these channel partners, the loss of a number of these channel partners or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases from a major channel partner or a group of channel partners could adversely affect the Company.. The Company could be adversely affected by disruptions to its operations outside of its control.. The breakdown of equipment or other events, including labor disputes, strikes, workplace violence, pandemics, cyber-attacks, civil disruptions, or catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in the Company's or one or more of its suppliers' facilities could adversely affect the Company. Approximately 56% of the Company's finished products are manufactured in Mexico, a country that periodically experiences heightened civil unrest which could cause a disruption of the supply of products to or from these facilities. Further, because many of the Company's customers are to varying degrees dependent on planned deliveries from the Company's facilities, those customers that have to reschedule their own production or delay opening a facility due to the Company's missed deliveries as a result of these disruptions could pursue financial claims against the Company. The Company may incur costs to correct any of these problems in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, the Company's reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed and result in a loss of business. While the Company has developed business continuity plans, including alternative capacity, to support responses to such events or disruptions and maintains insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage and business interruptions, these policies may not cover all losses. The Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, loss of customers, and substantial losses in operational capacity.. Company operating systems, information systems, or portable devices may experience a failure, a compromise of security, or a violation of data privacy laws or regulations, which could adversely impact the Company's operations as well as the effectiveness of internal controls over operations and financial reporting.. The Company is highly dependent on various software and automated systems to record and process operational and financial transactions. The Company could experience a failure of one or more of these software and automated systems or could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new software system. The Company could also experience a compromise of its security due to many reasons, including technical system flaws, clerical, data input or record-keeping errors, or tampering or manipulation of its systems by employees or unauthorized third parties. Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops and smartphones, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, cyber attacks, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services, which may operate in a cloud environment. The Company is dependent on the third-party vendors to operate secure and reliable systems which may include data transfers over the internet.. The Company also maintains information technology to support lighting controls systems in certain of its customer offerings, which are integral to the functionality of those integrated systems. In addition to the risks noted above, there are other risks associated with these customer offerings. Customers may be installing software on their networks and. 8. Table of Contents. utilizing portable electronic devices, which may have security protocol variations that are outside of the Company's control and could result in a data security compromise.. The Company and certain of its third-party vendors may receive and store personal information in connection with human resources operations, customer offerings, and other aspects of the business. A material network breach in the security of these systems could include the theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or employee and customer information. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to the Company's data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential or customer or employee information, it could cause significant damage to the Company's reputation, affect relationships with the Company's customers and employees, lead to claims against the Company, and ultimately harm the Company's business. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. The Company is also subject to an increasing number of data privacy laws and regulations that prohibit certain transfers of data, including but not limited to transfers within and outside the Company from certain jurisdictions to others. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines, penalties and other costs. The legal and regulatory data privacy framework is evolving and uncertain. For example, the European Court of Justice's decision in October 2015 to invalidate the Safe Harbor data privacy program between the United States and the European Union could disrupt the Company's ability to transfer data from Europe to the United States in compliance with applicable law.. Operating system failures, ineffective system implementation or disruptions, failure to comply with data privacy laws or regulations, or the compromise of security with respect to internal or external operating systems or portable electronic devices could subject the Company to liability claims, harm the Company's reputation, interrupt the Company's operations, disrupt customer operations, and adversely affect the Company's internal control over financial reporting, business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Changes in the Company's relationship with employees, changes in U.S. or international employment regulations, an inability to attract and retain talented employees, or a loss of key employees could adversely impact the effectiveness of the Company's operations.. The Company employed approximately 12,500 people as of August 31, 2017, approximately 8,500 of whom are employed in international locations. As such, the Company has significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing relationships with employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements, and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on the Company's operating costs. Union recognition and collective bargaining agreements are in place or in process covering approximately 76% of the Company's workforce, primarily due to annual negotiations with unions in Mexico. Collective bargaining agreements representing approximately 56% of the Company's workforce will expire within one year. While the Company believes that it has good relationships with both its unionized and non-unionized employees, the Company may become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage, or other labor action by these employees.. The Company relies upon the knowledge and experience of employees involved in functions throughout the organization that require technical expertise and knowledge of the industry. An inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely impact the Company's ability to execute key operational functions.. There are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses.. Risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope and timing, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of the Company's subcontractors and suppliers. As the Company expands its service offerings, reliance on the technical infrastructure to provide services to customers will increase. If the Company fails to appropriately manage and secure the technical infrastructure required, customers could experience service outages or delays in implementation of services. If the Company is unable to manage and mitigate these risks, the Company could incur liabilities and other losses.. 9. Table of Contents. The Company may be subject to risk in connection with third-party relationships necessary to operate the Company's business.. The Company utilizes strategic partners and third party relationships in order to operate and grow its business. For instance, the Company utilizes third parties to contract manufacture certain products, as well as perform certain selling, distribution, and administrative functions. The Company cannot control the actions or performance, including product quality, of these third parties and therefore, cannot be certain that the Company or its end-users will be satisfied. Any future actions of or any failure to act by any third party on which the Company's business relies could cause the Company to incur losses or interruptions in its operations.. The Company is subject to risks related to operations and suppliers outside the United States.. The Company has substantial activities outside of the United States, including sourcing of products, materials, components and purchased finished goods. The Company's operations, as well as those of key vendors, are therefore subject to regulatory, economic, political, military, and other events in countries where these operations are located, particularly Mexico. In addition to the risks that are common to both the Company's domestic and international operations, the Company faces risks specifically related to its foreign operations, including but not limited to: foreign currency fluctuations; unstable political, social, regulatory, economic, financial, and market conditions; laws that prohibit shipments to certain countries or restricted parties and that prohibit improper payments to government officials such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act; potential for privatization and other confiscatory actions; trade restrictions and disruption; criminal activities; unforeseen increases in tariffs and taxes; corruption; and other changes in regulation in international jurisdictions that could result in substantial additional legal or compliance obligations for the Company. The Company operates six manufacturing facilities in Mexico, which are authorized to operate as Maquiladoras by the Ministry of Economy of Mexico. Maquiladora status allows the Company to import certain items from the United States into Mexico duty-free, provided that such items, after processing, are exported from Mexico within a stipulated time frame. Maquiladora status, which is renewed periodically, is subject to various restrictions and requirements, including compliance with the terms of the Maquiladora program and other local regulations, which have become stricter in recent years.. Certain regulations related to the Maquiladora program became effective in January 2015. Failure to comply with these new regulations could adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows primarily because the Company would in such event be required to pay value-added tax on material imported into Mexico and then seek a refund of those amounts months later after the material is exported from Mexico.. The Company is also subject to certain other laws and regulations affecting its international operations, including laws and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement which, among other things, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Repeal or alteration of these laws and regulations could adversely impact the Company's business. The evolution of the Company's products, complexity of its supply chain, and reliance on third-party vendors such as customs brokers and freight vendors, which may not have effective processes and controls to enable the Company to fully and accurately comply with such requirements, could subject the Company to liabilities for past, present, or future periods. Such liabilities could adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, it the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. These changes could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding the Company's business and the business of existing and future customers and suppliers as well as have an impact on the Company's employees based in Europe, which could adversely impact its business. The actual effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.. The Company continues to monitor conditions affecting its international locations, including potential changes in income from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar. Some of these risks, including but not limited to foreign exchange risk, violations of laws, and higher costs associated with changes in regulation, could adversely impact the Company's business.. 10. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters. Failure to comply with the broad range of standards, laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates may result in exposure to substantial disruptions, costs and liabilities.. The laws and regulations impacting the Company impose increasingly complex, stringent and costly compliance activities, including but not limited to environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting, labeling and other requirements regarding, among other things, electronic and wireless communications, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous or toxic materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, and working conditions for the Company's employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The Company may also be affected by future industry standards, laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to energy, climate change, product functionality, geopolitical, or similar concerns. These standards, laws, or regulations may impact the sourcing of raw materials and the manufacture and distribution of the Company's products and place restrictions and other requirements or impediments on the products and solutions the Company can sell in certain geographical locations.. The Company may develop unexpected legal contingencies or matters that exceed insurance coverage.. The Company is subject to and in the future may be subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business. Such claims may include without limitation employment claims, product recall, personal injury, network security, data privacy, or property damage claims resulting from the use of the Company's products, services, or solutions, as well as exposure to hazardous materials, contract disputes, or intellectual property disputes. The Company is insured up to specified limits for certain types of losses with a self-insurance retention per occurrence, including product or professional liability, and cyber liability, including network security and data privacy claims, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of losses, including environmental, product recall, warranties, commercial disputes, and patent infringement. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the level of insurance coverage held by the Company and/or the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters could be unfavorable. The Company's insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that could cause claim-related costs to rise.. If the Company's products are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, the Company may need to recall those items, may have increased warranty costs, and could be the target of product liability claims.. The Company may need to recall products if they are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, and the Company does not maintain insurance for such recall events. Many of the Company's products and solutions have become more complex in recent years and include more sophisticated and sensitive electronic components. The Company has increasingly manufactured certain of those components and products in its own facilities. The Company has previously initiated product recalls as a result of potentially faulty components, assembly, installation, and packaging of its products. Widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, penalties, and lost sales due to the unavailability of a product for a period of time. In addition, products developed by the Company that incorporate new technologies, such as LED technology, generally provide for more extensive warranty protection which may result in higher costs if warranty claims on these products are higher than historical amounts. The Company may also be liable if the use of any of its products causes harm, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against the Company in excess of its insurance limits. The Company may not be able to obtain indemnity or reimbursement from its suppliers or other third parties for the warranty costs or liabilities associated with its products. A significant product recall, warranty claim, or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company's reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in its products.. The Company may fail to effectively estimate employer-sponsored health insurance premiums and incremental costs due to the Affordable Care Act.. In March 2010, the United States federal government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation, which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new taxes on health insurers, self-insured companies, and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation. 11. Table of Contents. effective dates that began in 2010 and extend through 2020 with many of the changes requiring additional guidance and regulations from federal agencies. Possible adverse effects could include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, and requirements for the Company to revise the ways in which healthcare and other benefits are provided to employees. To date, the Company has experienced increased costs related to such legislation; however, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, the Company continues to monitor the potential impacts the health care reform legislation will have on the Company's financial results. Furthermore, any changes to or a repeal of previously enacted health care reform could cause the Company to incur additional expense to comply with or change its practices with respect any new or revised legislation.. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property and could be the target of intellectual property claims.. The Company owns certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property. In addition, the Company continues to file patent applications, when appropriate. The Company cannot be certain that others have not and will not infringe on its intellectual property rights; however, the Company seeks to establish and protect those rights, which could result in significant legal expenses and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Over the last several years, the Company and others in the industry have received an increased number of allegations of patent infringement from competitors and other non-practicing entity patent holders, often coupled with offers to license such patents for use by the Company. Such offers typically relate to various technologies including electronics, power systems, controls, and software, as well as the use of visible light to communicate data, the use of certain wireless networking methods, and the design of specific products. The Company believes that it does not need or will be able to invalidate or access such patents through licensing, cross-licensing, or other mutually beneficial arrangements, although to the extent the Company is required but unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable economic terms, it could adversely impact the Company.. Risks Related to Financial Matters. Tight credit conditions could impair the ability of the Company and other industry parties to effectively access capital markets, which could negatively impact demand for the Company's products and services.. The impact of tight credit conditions could impair the ability of real estate developers, property owners, and contractors to effectively access capital markets or obtain reasonable costs of capital on borrowed funds, resulting in depressed levels of construction and renovation projects. The inability of these constituents to borrow money to fund construction and renovation projects may reduce the demand for the Company's products and services.. The market price and trading volume of the Company's shares may be volatile.. The market price of the Company's common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including reasons unrelated to the Company's specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by customers, competitors, or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general global economic, industry, and political conditions. SInce management does not provide guidance, the Company's performance could be different than analyst expectations causing a decline in the Company's stock price. To the extent that other large companies within the Company's industry experience declines in share price, the Company's share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders could institute securities class action lawsuits against the Company. Such a lawsuit could cause the Company to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company's management and other resources.. 12. Table of Contents. Risks related to the Company's defined benefit retirement plans may adversely impact results of operations and cash flows.. Significant changes in actual investment returns on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and the amount of contributions the Company is required to make to the defined benefit plans in future periods. As the Company's defined benefit plan assets and liabilities are marked-to-market on an annual basis, large non-cash gains or losses could be recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles the income or expense for the plans is calculated using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for the defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to defined benefit funding obligations. Unfavorable changes in these factors could adversely affect the Company."
