[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. The business, financial condition and operating results of Adient can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause Adient's actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect Adient's business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting Adient's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to Adient's Business. General economic, credit and capital market conditions could adversely affect Adient's financial performance, Adient's ability to grow or sustain its businesses and Adient's ability to access the capital markets.. Adient competes around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. Global economic conditions affect Adient's business. As discussed in greater detail below, any future financial distress in the industries and/or markets where Adient competes could negatively affect Adient's revenues and financial performance in future periods, result in future restructuring charges, and adversely impact Adient's ability to grow or sustain its businesses.. The capital and credit markets provide Adient with liquidity to operate and grow its business beyond the liquidity that operating cash flows provide. A worldwide economic downturn and/or disruption of the credit markets could reduce Adient's access to capital necessary for its operations and executing its strategic plan. If Adient's access to capital were to become constrained significantly, or if costs of capital increased significantly, due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, Adient's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The U.K.'s June 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, which we refer to as \"Brexit,\" has caused and may continue to cause disruptions to capital and currency markets worldwide. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. invoked Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which provides a two-year time period through March 2019 for the U.K. and the remaining European Union countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. The full impact of the Brexit decision, however, remains uncertain. The ongoing process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the European Union. During this period of negotiation, Adient's results of operations and access to capital may be negatively affected by interest rate, exchange rate and other market and economic volatility, as well as regulatory and political uncertainty. Brexit may also have a detrimental effect on Adient's customers and suppliers, which would, in turn, adversely affect Adient's revenues and financial condition. In addition, Brexit may result in legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as new legal relationships between the U.K. and the European Union are established.. A failure of Adient's information technology (IT) and data security infrastructure could adversely impact Adient's business, operations and reputation.. Adient relies upon the capacity, reliability and security of its IT and data security infrastructure, as well as its ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of its business. If Adient experiences a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of Adient's IT systems, including during system upgrades and/or new system implementations, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on Adient's business.. Adient and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with Adient's human resources operations and other aspects of Adient's business. Despite Adient's implementation of security measures, Adient's IT systems, like those of other companies, are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attack and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to Adient's operations. A material network breach in the security of Adient's IT systems could include the theft of Adient's intellectual property, trade secrets, customer information, human resources information or other confidential information. To the extent that any disruptions or security. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 12. breach results in a loss or damage to Adient's data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential, proprietary or customer information, it could cause significant damage to Adient's reputation, affect Adient's relationships with its customers, lead to claims against Adient and ultimately harm its business. In addition, Adient may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of Adient's operations in several jurisdictions could lead to additional changes in Adient's valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax reserves on Adient's statements of financial position. Additionally, changes in tax laws in Ireland, the U.S. or in other countries where Adient has significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities on Adient's statements of financial position and income tax provision on Adient's statements of income.. Adient is also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities on a worldwide basis. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. Adient's inability to achieve product cost reductions that offset customer-imposed price reductions could adversely affect Adient's financial performance.. Downward pricing pressure by automotive manufacturers is a characteristic of the automotive industry. Adient's financial performance is largely dependent on its ability to achieve product cost reductions through product design enhancement and supply chain management, as well as manufacturing efficiencies and restructuring actions. Adient's inability to achieve product cost reductions that offset customer-imposed price reductions could adversely affect Adient's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Adient may not be able to successfully negotiate pricing terms with its customers, which may adversely affect its results of operations.. Adient will negotiate sales prices annually with its automotive customers. Any cost-cutting initiatives that its customers adopt generally result in increased downward pressure on pricing. If Adient is unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, Adient's results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, large commercial settlements with Adient's customers may adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. Adient may be unable to complete or integrate acquisitions or joint ventures effectively, which may adversely affect its growth, profitability and results of operations.. Adient expects acquisitions of businesses and assets, as well as joint ventures (or other strategic arrangements) to play a role in its future growth. Adient cannot be certain that it will be able to identify attractive acquisition or joint venture targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms, successfully acquire identified targets or form joint ventures, or manage the timing of acquisitions due to other capital obligations across its businesses. Additionally, Adient may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses or joint ventures into its existing operations and achieving projected synergies. Specifically, on September 22, 2017, Adient completed its acquisition of automotive seating manufacturing Futuris Global Holdings, LLC. Among other risks, failure to successfully integrate Futuris, the possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from the acquisition of Futuris will not be realized or will not be realized at expected levels or within the expected time period, or the likelihood that consummation of the acquisition of Futuris will make it difficult for Adient to consummate other material and/or strategically advantageous acquisitions or investments in the near term may have a material adverse impact on Adient's growth, profitability, financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which Adient operates may rise, thereby increasing Adient's costs of making acquisitions or causing Adient to refrain from making further acquisitions. If Adient were to use equity securities to finance a future acquisition, Adient's then-current shareholders would experience dilution. Adient is also subject to applicable antitrust laws and must avoid anticompetitive behavior. These and other factors related to acquisitions and joint ventures may negatively and adversely impact Adient's growth, profitability and results of operations.. Adient may pursue strategic transactions and investments that have risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.. Adient has completed an acquisition, made investments and entered into other strategic initiatives and may pursue additional transactions and initiatives. Although management believes that these transactions and initiatives will provide financial, operational and other benefits to Adient and Adient's shareholders, they may not provide such results on the scope or scale management. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 13. anticipates, and Adient may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. These transactions and initiatives involve risks and uncertainties and could divert management's attention from Adient's business or cause a temporary interruption of or loss of momentum in Adient's business and the loss of key personnel.  If the intended benefits of these transactions and investments are not realized, Adient's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted.. Increases in the costs and restrictions on the availability of raw materials, energy, commodities and product components could adversely affect Adient's financial performance.. Raw material, energy and commodity costs can be volatile. Although Adient has developed and implemented strategies to mitigate the impact of higher raw material, energy and commodity costs, these strategies, together with commercial negotiations with Adient's customers and suppliers, typically offset only a portion of the adverse impact. Certain of these strategies also may limit Adient's opportunities in a declining commodity environment. In addition, the availability of raw materials, commodities and product components fluctuates from time to time due to factors outside of Adient's control. If the costs of raw materials, energy, commodities and product components increase or the availability thereof is restricted, it could adversely affect Adient's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks associated with joint venture partnerships may adversely affect Adient's business and financial results.. Adient has entered into several joint ventures worldwide and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Adient's joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with Adient's goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, Adient may compete against its joint venture partners in certain of its other markets. Disagreements with Adient's business partners may impede Adient's ability to maximize the benefits of its partnerships. Adient's joint venture arrangements may require Adient, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek its joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, Adient's joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and Adient may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. Further, joint venture partnerships are subject to renewal or expiration at various times. While Adient maintains good relationships with its partners, at the time of any required renewal Adient may not be able to negotiate a renewal or extension of the terms of the joint venture partnership on terms favorable to Adient or at all. The above risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on Adient's business and financial results.. Adient operates in the highly competitive automotive supply industry.. The global automotive component supply industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, technology, quality, delivery and overall customer service. There can be no assurance that Adient's products will be able to compete successfully with the products of Adient's competitors. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which Adient competes may attract new entrants. Additionally, consolidation in the automotive industry may lead to decreased product purchases from Adient. As a result, Adient's sales levels and margins could be adversely affected by pricing pressures from OEMs and pricing actions of competitors. These factors may lead to selective resourcing of business to competitors. Adient's competitors may develop, design or duplicate technologies that compete with Adient's owned or licensed intellectual property. Developments or assertions by or against Adient relating to intellectual property rights, or any inability to protect Adient's rights, could have a material adverse impact on its business and competitive position. In addition, any of Adient's competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than Adient, develop products that are superior to Adient's products, produce similar products at a lower cost than Adient, or adapt more quickly than Adient to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. As a result, Adient's products may not be able to compete successfully with its competitors' products and Adient may not be able to meet the growing demands of customers. These trends may adversely affect Adient's sales as well as the profit margins on Adient's products.. Unfavorable changes in the condition of the global automotive industry may adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. Adient's financial performance will depend, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. If automakers experience a decline in the number of new vehicle sales, Adient may experience reductions in orders from these customers, incur write-offs of accounts receivable, incur impairment charges or require additional restructuring actions beyond its current restructuring plans, particularly if any of the automakers cannot adequately fund their operations or experience financial distress. In addition, such adverse changes could have a negative impact on Adient's business, financial condition or results of operations.. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 14. If Adient does not respond appropriately, the evolution of the automotive industry towards autonomous vehicles and mobility on demand services could adversely affect Adient's business.. The automotive industry is increasingly focused on the development of advanced driver assistance technologies, with the goal of developing and introducing a commercially-viable, fully automated driving experience. There has also been an increase in consumer preferences for mobility on demand services, such as car- and ride-sharing, as opposed to automobile ownership, which may result in a long term reduction in the number of vehicles per capita. These evolving areas have also attracted increased competition from entrants outside the traditional automotive industry. If Adient does not continue to innovate to develop or acquire new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies in response to OEM and consumer preferences, this could have a material adverse impact on Adient's results of operations.. Changes in U.S. administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements, may have a material adverse effect on Adient.. As a result of changes to U.S. administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the North American Free Trade Agreement, greater restrictions on free trade generally, and significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. particularly tariffs on products manufactured in Mexico, among other possible changes. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where Adient currently manufactures and sells products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, financial condition or results of operations.. The cyclicality of original equipment automobile production rates may adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. The financial performance of Adient's business is directly related to automotive production by its customers. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. An economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production by Adient's customers could have a material adverse impact on Adient's results of operations.. Adient may incur material losses and costs as a result of warranty claims and product liability actions that may be brought against Adient.. Adient faces an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty claims and product liability in the event that its products fail to perform as expected and, in the case of product liability, such failure of its products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. If any of Adient's products are or are alleged to be defective, Adient may be required to participate in a recall involving such products. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, auto manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product liability claims. A recall claim brought against Adient, or a product liability claim brought against Adient in excess of its available insurance, could have a material adverse impact on Adient's results of operations. In addition, a recall claim could require Adient to review its entire product portfolio to assess whether similar issues are present in other product lines, which could result in significant disruption to Adient's business and could have a material adverse impact on Adient's results of operations.. Auto manufacturers are also increasingly requiring their suppliers to guarantee or warrant their products and bear the costs of repair and replacement of such products under new vehicle warranties. Depending on the terms under which Adient supplies products to an auto manufacturer, an auto manufacturer may attempt to hold Adient responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of defective products under new vehicle warranties, when the vehicle manufacturer asserts that the product supplied did not perform as warranted. Although Adient cannot assure that the future costs of warranty claims by its customers will not be material, Adient believes its established reserves are adequate to cover potential warranty settlements. Adient's warranty reserves are based on Adient's best estimates of amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims. Adient regularly evaluates the level of these reserves, and adjusts them when appropriate. However, the final amounts determined to be due related to these matters could differ materially from Adient's recorded estimates.. Any changes in consumer credit availability or cost of borrowing could adversely affect Adient's business.. Declines in the availability of consumer credit and increases in consumer borrowing costs have negatively impacted global automotive sales and resulted in lower production volumes in the past. Substantial declines in automotive sales and production by Adient's customers could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 15. Risks associated with Adient's non-U.S. operations could adversely affect Adient's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Adient has significant operations in a number of countries outside the United States, some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which Adient operates, such as Asia, South America and Europe and other emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from Adient's operations to cover its capital needs and debt service requirements.. In addition, as a result of Adient's global presence, a significant portion of its revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Adient is therefore subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. While Adient employs financial instruments to hedge some of its transactional foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate Adient completely from those exposures. Exchange rates can be volatile and could adversely impact Adient's financial results and the comparability of results from period to period.. There are other risks that are inherent in Adient's non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including import, export, labor and environmental laws, and monetary and fiscal policies; protectionist measures that may prohibit acquisitions or joint ventures, or impact trade volumes; unsettled political conditions; government-imposed plant or other operational shutdowns; backlash from foreign labor organizations related to Adient's restructuring actions; corruption; natural and man-made disasters, hazards and losses; violence, civil and labor unrest; and possible terrorist attacks.. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on Adient's non-U.S. operations and therefore on Adient's business and results of operations.. The regulation of Adient's international operations, and any failure of Adient to comply with those regulations, could adversely affect its business, results of operations and reputation.. Due to Adient's global operations, Adient is subject to many laws governing international relations and its international operations, including laws that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, that regulate privacy and data security (including the General Data Protection Regulation in Europe when it becomes effective in May 2018), and that restrict where Adient can do business, what information or products Adient can import and export to and from certain countries and what information Adient can provide to a non-U.S. government. These laws include but are not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Export Administration Act and U.S. and international economic sanctions and money laundering regulations. Adient has internal policies and procedures relating to compliance with such regulations; however, there is a risk that such policies and procedures will not always protect Adient from the improper acts of employees, agents, business partners, joint venture partners or representatives, particularly in the case of recently acquired operations that may not have significant training in applicable compliance policies and procedures. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties, sanctions and/or fines that could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, financial condition and results of operations and reputation. In addition, Adient is subject to antitrust laws in various countries throughout the world. Changes in these laws or their interpretation, administration or enforcement may occur over time. Any such changes may limit Adient's future acquisitions or operations. Violations of antitrust laws may result in penalties, sanctions and/or fines, and may also result in costly and time-consuming governmental investigations, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, financial condition and results of operations and reputation.. Adient's business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions.. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of Adient's strategy. The automotive supply market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market evolves, Adient anticipates that market participants will act aggressively to increase or maintain their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and Adient's inability to gain or hold market share. Adient's business in China is sensitive to economic, political and market conditions that drive automotive sales volumes in China. If Adient is unable to maintain its position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, then Adient's business and financial results may be materially adversely affected.. Global climate change could negatively affect Adient's business.. Increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 16. creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. Such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for Adient's products and Adient's results of operations.. There is a growing consensus that greenhouse gas emissions are linked to global climate changes. Climate changes, such as extreme weather conditions, create financial risk to Adient's business. For example, the demand for Adient's products and services may be affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Climate changes could also disrupt Adient's operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. These factors may impact Adient's decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. Adient could also face indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain, and process disruptions due to physical climate changes could result in price modifications for Adient's products and the resources needed to produce them.. Risks related to Adient's defined benefit retirement plans may adversely impact Adient's results of operations and cash flow.. Significant changes in actual investment return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates, mortality assumptions and other factors could adversely affect Adient's results of operations and the amounts of contributions Adient must make to its defined benefit plans in future periods. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States require that Adient calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for Adient's defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other factors, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to defined benefit funding obligations.. Legal proceedings in which Adient is, or may be, a party may adversely affect Adient.. Adient is currently and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically lawsuits, claims and proceedings that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, claims pertaining to product liability, product safety, environmental, safety and health, intellectual property, employment, commercial, contractual and various other matters. The outcome of such lawsuits, claims or proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and some may be disposed of unfavorably to Adient. There exists the possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on Adient's results of operations that is greater than Adient anticipates, and/or negatively affect Adient's reputation.. Adient is also subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims if its products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of its products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. While Adient will maintain reasonable limits of insurance coverage to appropriately respond to such exposures, large product liability claims, if made, could exceed Adient's insurance coverage limits and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Adient may incur significant costs to defend these claims or experience product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of Adient's designed products are, or are alleged to be, defective, Adient may be required to participate in recalls and exchanges of such products. The future cost associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of Adient's products could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, financial condition and results of operations.. A downgrade in the ratings of Adient's debt capital could restrict Adient's ability to access the debt capital markets and increase Adient's interest costs.. Unfavorable changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to Adient's debt may ultimately negatively impact Adient's access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs Adient incurs to borrow funds. Future tightening in the credit markets and a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets due to turmoil in the financial and banking industries could affect Adient's access to the debt capital markets or the price Adient pays to issue debt. A downgrade in Adient's ratings or volatility in the financial markets causing limitations to the debt capital markets could have an adverse effect on Adient's business or Adient's ability to meet its liquidity needs.. Additionally, an increase in the level of Adient's indebtedness may increase Adient's vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect Adient's ability to obtain additional financing.. Adient's level of debt obligations could adversely affect Adient's business, profitability and the ability to meet its obligations.. As of September 30, 2017, Adient's total consolidated indebtedness approximated $3 billion. This significant amount of debt could potentially have important consequences to Adient and its debt and equity investors, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of Adient's cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt following the separation;. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 17. • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations;. • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of its debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing;. • increasing Adient's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow Adient's business;. • limiting Adient's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry;. • placing Adient at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt; and. • limiting Adient's ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase ordinary shares.. In addition, Adient's term loan and revolving credit facilities require Adient to maintain compliance with a maximum total net leverage ratio tested on a quarterly basis. Events beyond Adient's control, including changes in general business and economic conditions, may affect its ability to meet this requirement. A breach of the restrictive covenants in Adient's credit facilities or Adient's inability to comply with the maximum total net leverage ratio could result in an event of default under Adient's debt agreements. If an event of default occurs and is continuing under such agreements, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which could result in acceleration of Adient's other debt. If Adient was unable to repay any borrowings under the credit facilities when due, the lenders thereunder could proceed against their collateral.. To the extent that Adient incurs additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, Adient's actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Adient's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and Adient may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance Adient's debt.. The potential insolvency or financial distress of third parties could adversely impact Adient's business and results of operations.. Adient is exposed to the risk that third parties to various arrangements who owe Adient money or goods and services, or who purchase goods and services from Adient, will not be able to perform their obligations or continue to place orders due to insolvency or financial distress. If third parties fail to perform their obligations under arrangements with Adient, Adient may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at current or above-market prices or on other terms that are less favorable to Adient. In such events, Adient may incur losses, or Adient's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.. Adient may be unable to realize the expected benefits of its restructuring actions, which could adversely affect its profitability and operations.. In order to align Adient's resources with its growth strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, Adient may periodically announce restructuring plans, which may include workforce reductions, global plant closures and consolidations, asset impairments and other cost reduction initiatives. Adient may undertake restructuring actions and workforce reductions in the future. As these plans and actions are complex, unforeseen factors could result in expected savings and benefits to be delayed or not realized to the full extent planned (if at all), and Adient's operations and business may be disrupted.. Adient's business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Adient's ability to sustain and grow its business requires it to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that Adient has the leadership capacity with the necessary skill set and experience could impede Adient's ability to deliver its growth objectives and execute its strategic plan. Organizational and reporting changes as a result of any future leadership transition and corporate initiatives could result in increased turnover. Additionally, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees could have a negative effect on Adient's results of operations.. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 18. Adverse developments affecting, or the financial distress of, one or more of Adient's suppliers could adversely affect Adient's financial performance.. Adient obtains components and other products and services from numerous automotive suppliers and other vendors throughout the world. Adient is responsible for managing its supply chain, including suppliers that may be the sole sources of products that Adient requires, which Adient's customers direct Adient to use or which have unique capabilities that would make it difficult and/or expensive to re-source. In certain instances, entire industries may experience short-term capacity constraints. Additionally, Adient's production capacity, and that of Adient's customers and suppliers, may be adversely affected by natural disasters. Any such significant disruption could adversely affect Adient's financial performance. Unfavorable economic or industry conditions could also result in financial distress within Adient's supply chain, thereby increasing the risk of supply disruption. Although market conditions generally have improved in recent years, uncertainty remains and another economic downturn or other unfavorable industry conditions in one or more of the regions in which Adient operates could cause a supply disruption and thereby adversely affect Adient's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which Adient is a significant supplier could adversely affect Adient's financial performance.. Although Adient receives purchase orders from its customers, these purchase orders often provide for the supply of a customer's annual requirements for a particular vehicle model and assembly plant, or in some cases, for the supply of a customer's requirements for the life of a particular vehicle model, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products. In addition, it is possible that Adient's customers could elect to manufacture its products internally or increase the extent to which they require Adient to utilize specific suppliers or materials in the manufacture of its products. The loss of business with respect to, the lack of commercial success of or an increase in directed component sourcing for a vehicle model for which Adient is a significant supplier could reduce Adient's sales or margins and thereby adversely affect Adient's financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Shifts in market shares among vehicles, vehicle segments or shifts away from vehicles on which Adient has significant content or overall changes in consumer demand could have a material adverse effect on Adient's profitability.. While Adient supplies parts for a wide variety of vehicles produced globally, Adient does not supply parts for all vehicles produced, nor is the number or value of parts evenly distributed among the vehicles for which Adient does supply parts. Shifts in market shares among vehicles or vehicle segments, particularly shifts away from vehicles on which Adient has significant content and shifts away from vehicle segments in which Adient's sales may be more heavily concentrated, could have a material adverse effect on Adient's profitability. Increases in energy costs or other factors (e.g., climate change concerns) may also shift consumer demand away from motor vehicles that typically have higher interior content that Adient supplies, such as light trucks, crossover vehicles, minivans and sports utility vehicles, to smaller vehicles having less interior content. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which Adient is a significant supplier could reduce Adient's sales and harm Adient's profitability, thereby adversely affecting Adient's results of operations.. Adient's profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected by a significant failure or inability to comply with the specifications and manufacturing requirements of its OEM customers.. Adient's business faces the production demands and requirements of its OEM customers, as described in Item 1, \"Business\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A significant failure or inability to comply with customer specifications and manufacturing requirements or delays or other problems with existing or new products (including program launch difficulties, as discussed below) could result in financial penalties, increased costs, loss of sales, loss of customers or potential breaches of customer contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on Adient's profitability and results of operations.. Adient's profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected by program launch difficulties.. The launch of new business is a complex process, the success of which depends on a wide range of factors, including the production readiness of Adient's and its suppliers' manufacturing facilities and manufacturing processes, as well as factors related to tooling, equipment, employees, initial product quality and other factors. Adient's failure to successfully launch material new or takeover business could have an adverse effect on Adient's profitability and results of operations.. Work stoppages and similar events could significantly disrupt Adient's business.. Because the automotive industry relies heavily on just-in-time delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, a work stoppage at one or more of Adient's manufacturing and assembly facilities could have material adverse effects on the business. Similarly, if one or more of Adient's customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 19. halt or limit purchases of Adient's products, which could result in the shutdown of the related manufacturing facilities. A significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to a work stoppage at one of Adient's suppliers or any other supplier could have the same consequences, and accordingly, have a material adverse effect on Adient's financial results.. Adient's internal controls around accounting and financial reporting may not be adequate to ensure complete and accurate reporting of Adient's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Exchange Act requires that Adient file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to its business and financial condition. Under the Sarbanes Oxley Act, Adient is required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on Adient's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact Adient's business.. SEC rules aimed at improving the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries, impose annual disclosure requirements on companies that use such minerals in their products. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in Adient's products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Adient's compliance with these disclosure rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in Adient's products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, Adient cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, or that Adient will be able to satisfy customers who require Adient's products to be conflict free. Also, Adient may face reputational challenges if Adient determines that certain of its products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if Adient is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in its products through the procedures Adient may implement.. A variety of other factors could adversely affect Adient's results of operations.. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact Adient's results of operations: the loss of, or changes in, automobile supply contracts, sourcing strategies or customer claims with Adient's major customers or suppliers; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellations of such programs; underutilization of Adient's manufacturing facilities, which are generally located near, and devoted to, a particular customer's facility; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on products that Adient has supplied or sold into the automotive aftermarket; delays or difficulties in new product development and integration; quantity and complexity of new program launches, which are subject to Adient's customers' timing, performance, design and quality standards; interruption of supply of certain single-source components; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; changing nature and prevalence of Adient's joint ventures and relationships with its strategic business partners; and global overcapacity and vehicle platform proliferation.. Risks Related to Being a Separate, Stand-Alone Company. Adient's historical information related to the fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 years is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.. The historical information about Adient for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relates to Adient's business as operated by and integrated with the former Parent. This historical financial information was derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of the former Parent. Accordingly, the historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that Adient would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during those periods.. Prior to the separation, Adient's business was operated by the former Parent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. The former Parent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for Adient, such as accounting, information technology, and treasury. Adient's historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from the former Parent for such functions and may not reflect the expenses Adient would have incurred had it operated as a separate publicly traded company. As a result of the separation, Adient is responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly traded company, including costs related to corporate governance and external reporting. For additional information about the past financial performance of Adient's business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined financial statements of Adient's business, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 20. The former Parent may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that have been executed as part of the separation or Adient may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire.. In connection with the separation, Adient and the former Parent have entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a transitional trademark license agreement. Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the separation. Adient relies on the former Parent to satisfy performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If the former Parent is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, Adient could incur operational difficulties or losses.. Potential indemnification liabilities to the former Parent pursuant to the separation agreement could materially adversely affect Adient.. The separation agreement with the former Parent provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the separation, certain conditions to the separation and provisions governing the relationship between Adient and the former Parent with respect to and resulting from the separation. Among other things, the separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make Adient financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation, as well as those obligations of the former Parent assumed by Adient pursuant to the separation agreement. Adient may be subject to substantial liabilities under these indemnifications.. Adient may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions.. The former Parent and Adient have engaged in various restructuring transactions in connection with the separation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of certain such restructuring transactions, for the two-year period following the separation, under the tax matters agreement that Adient has entered into with the former Parent, Adient may be prohibited, except in specific circumstances, from (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the Adient ordinary shares would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) ceasing to actively conduct certain of its businesses or (iii) taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent certain of such restructuring transactions from qualifying as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). These restrictions may limit for a period of time Adient's ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that Adient may believe to be in the best interests of its shareholders or that might increase the value of its business.. Adient may have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms it received in its agreements with the former Parent.. The agreements Adient has entered into with the former Parent in connection with the separation, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a transitional trademark license agreement, were prepared in the context of the separation while Adient's business was still operated by and part of the former Parent. Accordingly, during the period in which the terms of those agreements were prepared, Adient did not have an independent board of directors or a management team that was independent of the former Parent. As a result, the terms of those agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. Arm's-length negotiations between the former Parent and an unaffiliated third party in another form of transaction, such as a buyer in a sale of a business transaction, may have resulted in more favorable terms to the unaffiliated third party.. Risks Related to Adient Ordinary Shares. Adient's share price may fluctuate significantly.. Adient cannot predict the prices at which shares of its ordinary shares may trade. The market price of Adient ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond Adient's control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in Adient's operating results;. • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or Adient's ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which Adient operates;. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 21. • the trading volume and liquidity of Adient ordinary shares; and. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions.. In addition, when the market price of a company's shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against Adient. A lawsuit against Adient could cause it to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of its management and other resources.. Adient cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends on its ordinary shares.. Although Adient expects to continue to pay regular cash dividends in the future, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to shareholders will fall within the discretion of Adient's board of directors. The board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as Adient's financial condition, earnings, sufficiency of distributable reserves, capital requirements, debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the board deems relevant. Adient's ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access capital markets. Adient cannot guarantee that it will continue to pay dividends in the future. For more information, see Item 5, \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.\". Adient shares may be diluted in the future.. In the future, per share ownership percentage in Adient may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that Adient has granted and may grant in the future to Adient's directors, officers and employees. Adient's employees have options to purchase its ordinary shares as a result of the conversion in the distribution of their the former Parent stock options (in whole or in part) to Adient share options. Adient's compensation committee has granted stock-based awards to employees in Adient ordinary shares, and Adient anticipates its compensation committee will continue to do so. Such awards have a dilutive effect on Adient's earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of Adient ordinary shares.. In addition, Adient's articles of association authorize Adient to issue, without the approval of Adient's shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred shares having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Adient ordinary shares respecting dividends and distributions, as Adient's board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred shares could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Adient ordinary shares. For example, Adient could grant the holders of preferred shares the right to elect some number of Adient's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences Adient could assign to holders of preferred shares could affect the residual value of the ordinary shares.. Certain provisions in Adient's articles of association, among other things, could prevent or delay an acquisition of Adient, which could decrease the trading price of Adient ordinary shares.. The Adient articles of association include measures that may be found in the charters of U.S. companies and that could have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices, inadequate takeover bids and unsolicited offers. These provisions include, among others: (i) the power for the board of directors to issue and allot preferred shares or implement a shareholder rights plan without shareholder approval in certain circumstances; (ii) a provision similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding ordinary shares of Adient shall not engage in any business combination with Adient, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15 percent of Adient's outstanding ordinary shares; (iii) rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; and (iv) the ability of the Adient board of directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors in certain circumstances.. It could be difficult for Adient to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under Irish law than under U.S. state law.. In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of Adient. For example, Adient will be subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in Adient ordinary shares in certain circumstances. Also, Irish companies, including Adient, may only alter their memorandum of association. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 22. and articles of association with the approval of the holders of at least 75% of Adient's shares present and voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of Adient (and certain provisions of Adient's memorandum of association and articles of association may only be amended with the approval of at least 80% of Adient's shares present and voting in person or by proxy at a general meeting of Adient).. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit Adient's flexibility to manage its capital structure.. Irish law provides that a board of directors may allot shares (or rights to subscribe for or convertible into shares) only with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. This authorization would need to be renewed by Adient's shareholders upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). The Adient articles of association authorize the allotment of shares (subject to the limits provided for in the NYSE Listed Company Manual) for a period of five years from the date of their adoption, which authorization will need to be renewed by ordinary resolution, being a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes cast, upon expiration but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period).. Irish law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the Adient articles of association, or shareholders in general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the articles of association, if the exclusion is contained in the articles of association, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution; in either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed by Adient's shareholders upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). The Adient articles of association exclude preemptive rights for a period of five years from the date of adoption of the Adient articles of association, which exclusion will need to be renewed by special resolution, being a resolution passed by not less than 75% of votes cast, upon expiration but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period).. Irish law also generally prohibits a public company from repurchasing its own shares without the prior approval of shareholders by ordinary resolution, being a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes cast, and other formalities. Such approval may be for a maximum period of up to five years. Prior to the separation, an ordinary resolution was adopted to permit purchases of Adient ordinary shares. This ordinary resolution will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period).. Irish law requires that Adient meet certain additional financial requirements before it declares dividends.. Under Irish law, Adient will be able to declare dividends and make distributions only out of \"distributable reserves.\" Distributable reserves are the accumulated realized profits of Adient that have not previously been utilized in a distribution or capitalization less accumulated realized losses that have not previously been written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital, and include reserves created by way of a reduction of capital, including the share premium account. In addition, no distribution or dividend may be paid or made by Adient unless the net assets of Adient are equal to, or exceed, the aggregate of Adient's called up share capital plus non-distributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce Adient's net assets below such aggregate. Non-distributable reserves include the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve fund and the amount by which Adient's accumulated unrealized profits that have not been previously utilized by any capitalization exceed Adient's accumulated unrealized losses that have not previously been written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital.. The Adient articles of association permit Adient by ordinary resolution of the shareholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. The dividend may not exceed the amount recommended by the directors. The directors may also decide to continue to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. When recommending or declaring the payment of a dividend, the directors will be required under Irish law to comply with their duties, including considering Adient's future financial requirements.. The laws of Ireland differ from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of Adient securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Adient in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against Adient or its directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against Adient or those persons based on those laws. The United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters in Ireland. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 23. state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. A judgment obtained against Adient will be enforced by the courts of Ireland if the following general requirements are met: (i) U.S. courts must have had jurisdiction in relation to the particular defendant according to Irish conflict of law rules (the submission to jurisdiction by the defendant would satisfy this rule) and (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive and the decree must be final and unalterable in the court which pronounces it. A judgment can be final and conclusive even if it is subject to appeal or even if an appeal is pending. Where however the effect of lodging an appeal under the applicable law is to stay execution of the judgment, it is possible that in the meantime the judgment may not be actionable in Ireland. It remains to be determined whether final judgment given in default of appearance is final and conclusive. However, Irish courts may refuse to enforce a judgment of the U.S. courts which meets the above requirements for one of the following reasons: (i) if the judgment is not for a definite sum of money; (ii) if the judgment was obtained by fraud; (iii) the enforcement of the judgment in Ireland would be contrary to natural or constitutional justice; (iv) the judgment is contrary to Irish public policy or involves certain U.S. laws which will not be enforced in Ireland; or (v) jurisdiction cannot be obtained by the Irish courts over the judgment debtors in the enforcement proceedings by personal service in Ireland or outside Ireland under Order 11 of the Ireland Superior Courts Rules.. As an Irish company, Adient is governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to Adient only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of Adient and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of Adient only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Adient's securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States.. In addition, the Adient articles of association provide that the Irish courts have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any and all derivative actions in which a holder of Adient ordinary shares asserts a claim in the name of Adient, actions asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty of any of the directors of Adient and actions asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of Irish law or Adient's articles of association. Under Irish law, the proper claimant for wrongs committed against Adient, including by the Adient directors, is considered to be Adient itself. Irish law permits a shareholder to initiate a lawsuit on behalf of a company such as Adient only in limited circumstances, and requires court permission to do so.. The IRS may not agree that Adient is a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.. For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered to be a tax resident of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because Adient is a company incorporated under the laws of Ireland, it would be classified as a foreign corporation under these rules. Section 7874 of the Code, or Section 7874, provides an exception to this general rule under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be classified as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. The rules under Section 7874 are relatively new and complex and there is limited guidance regarding their application.. Under Section 7874, a corporation created or organized outside the U.S. (i.e., a foreign corporation) will nevertheless be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes if (i) the foreign corporation directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a U.S. corporation (including through an acquisition of the outstanding shares of the U.S. corporation), (ii) the former shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold at least 80% (by either vote or value) of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding shares in the acquired U.S. corporation (including the receipt of the foreign corporation's shares in exchange for the U.S. corporation's shares), or the 80% Ownership Test, and (iii) the foreign corporation's \"expanded affiliated group\" does not have substantial business activities in the foreign corporation's country of organization or incorporation relative to such expanded affiliated group's worldwide activities. For purposes of Section 7874, acquisitions of multiple U.S. corporations (and/or substantially all of the assets of multiple U.S. corporations) by a foreign corporation, if treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions, may be treated as a single acquisition, in which case all shares of the foreign acquiring corporation received by the shareholders of the U.S. corporations would be aggregated for purposes of the 80% Ownership Test. Where, pursuant to the same transaction, stock of the foreign acquiring corporation is received in exchange for stock of a U.S. corporation as well as other property, the portion of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation received in exchange for the stock of the U.S. corporation is determined based on the relative value of the stock of the U.S. corporation compared with the aggregate value of such stock and such other property.. As part of the separation, Adient indirectly acquired assets, including stock of U.S. subsidiaries, from the former Parent, which is a U.S. corporation. It is currently not expected that Section 7874 will cause Adient or any of its affiliates to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. tax purposes as a result of such acquisitions because, among other things, based on the rules for determining ownership under Section 7874 and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and certain factual assumptions, (i) the assets. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 24. acquired from the former Parent are not expected to constitute \"substantially all\" of the properties held directly or indirectly by the former Parent and (ii) the shares received by reason of holding stock in the U.S. subsidiaries of the former Parent transferred in the separation are not expected to represent at least 80% (by either vote or value) of the relevant shares. The law and Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 7874 are relatively new, complex and somewhat unclear, and there is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874 in circumstances similar to the separation. For example, there is currently no guidance that expressly defines what constitutes \"substantially all\" of the properties of a U.S. corporation for purposes of Section 7874 and it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") may assert that \"substantially all\" of the properties of the former Parent (or of a U.S. subsidiary of the former Parent) were acquired in the separation. In addition, there is limited guidance on the application of the 80% Ownership Test in circumstances similar to the separation and the IRS may not agree that the shares held by reason of holding shares in U.S. subsidiaries that (or substantially all of the assets of which) were transferred in the separation represent less than 80% (by either vote or value) of the relevant shares for purposes of Section 7874. Moreover, the percentage represented by such shares will depend on the relative valuation of the various assets (including stock of subsidiaries) that were transferred in connection with the separation. Valuation matters can be subjective, and the IRS may also seek to challenge the valuation of such assets.. In addition, on April 4, 2016, the U.S. Department of Treasury (the \"U.S. Treasury\") and the IRS issued temporary Treasury Regulations under Section 7874 (the \"Temporary 7874 Regulations\"), which generally increase the likelihood that the relevant ownership percentages under Section 7874 will be exceeded. Although it is presently not expected that the Temporary 7874 Regulations will adversely affect the U.S. federal tax status of Adient or any of its foreign affiliates as a foreign corporation (and although it is possible that the Temporary 7874 Regulations could cause certain exceptions to the application of Section 7874 to apply to the separation), the Temporary 7874 Regulations are new and complex, and there is limited guidance regarding their application.. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the status of Adient or any of its foreign affiliates as a foreign corporation under Section 7874 or that such challenge would not be sustained by a court. If the IRS were to successfully challenge such status under Section 7874, Adient and its affiliates could be subject to substantial additional U.S. tax liability. Adient estimates that if it were treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, its effective tax rate could be substantially greater than currently contemplated. In addition, Adient and certain of its foreign affiliates are expected, regardless of any application of Section 7874, to be treated as tax residents of countries other than the U.S. Consequently, if Adient or any such affiliate is treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, Adient or such affiliate could be liable for both U.S. and non-U.S. taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. Section 7874 may limit the ability of Adient's U.S. affiliates to use certain tax attributes or otherwise increase such U.S. affiliates' U.S. taxable income.. Following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 of the Code can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to use U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Specifically, Section 7874 can apply in this manner if (i) the foreign corporation acquires, directly or indirectly, substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a U.S. corporation (including through an acquisition of the outstanding shares of the U.S. corporation), (ii) after the acquisition, the former shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold at least 60% (by either vote or value) but less than 80% (by vote and value) of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation by reason of holding shares in the acquired U.S. corporation (including the receipt of the foreign corporation's shares in exchange for the U.S. corporation's shares), or the 60% Ownership Test, and (iii) the foreign corporation's \"expanded affiliated group\" does not have substantial business activities in the foreign corporation's country of organization or incorporation relative to such expanded affiliated group's worldwide activities. For purposes of Section 7874, acquisitions of multiple U.S. corporations (and/or substantially all of the assets of multiple U.S. corporations) by a foreign corporation, if treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions, may be treated as a single acquisition, in which case all shares of the foreign acquiring corporation received by the shareholders of the U.S. corporations would be aggregated for purposes of the 60% Ownership Test. Where, pursuant to the same transaction, stock of the foreign acquiring corporation is received in exchange for stock of a U.S. corporation as well as other property, the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation that was received in exchange for the stock of the U.S. corporation is determined based on the relative value of the stock of the U.S. corporation compared with the aggregate value of such stock and such other property.. As part of the separation, Adient indirectly acquired assets, including stock of U.S. subsidiaries, from the former Parent, which is a U.S. corporation, in exchange for Adient ordinary shares. It is currently not expected that Section 7874 will limit the ability of Adient's U.S. affiliates to use certain tax attributes because, among other things, based on the rules for determining ownership under Section 7874 and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and certain factual assumptions, (i) the assets acquired from the former Parent are not expected to constitute \"substantially all\" of the properties held directly or indirectly by the former Parent and (ii) the shares received by reason of holding stock in the U.S. subsidiaries transferred in the separation are not expected. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 25. to represent at least 60% (by either vote or value) of the relevant shares. However, as discussed above, the Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 7874 are relatively new, complex and somewhat unclear and there is limited guidance regarding the application of Section 7874 in circumstances similar to the separation. Moreover, the percentage of shares held by reason of holding stock of relevant U.S. subsidiaries of the former Parent will depend on the relative valuation of the assets transferred in connection with the separation and valuation matters can be subjective.. In addition, the Temporary 7874 Regulations generally increase the likelihood that the relevant ownership percentages under Section 7874 will be exceeded and limit or eliminate certain tax benefits to so-called inverted corporations and groups, including with respect to access to certain foreign earnings, post-inversion restructuring transactions and the ability to use certain attributes and deductions. Although it is presently not expected that the Temporary 7874 Regulations will materially adversely affect the benefits of the separation or the ability of Adient's U.S. affiliates to use certain U.S. tax attributes or deductions (and although it is possible that the Temporary 7874 Regulations could cause certain exceptions to the application of Section 7874 to apply to the separation), the Temporary 7874 Regulations are new and complex, and there is limited guidance regarding their application.. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not assert that Section 7874 applies to limit the ability of the U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates of Adient to use certain U.S. tax attributes or that such challenge would not be sustained by a court. If the relevant tests under Section 7874 are satisfied for any reason, or if changes in applicable law adversely affect the application of the above rules to Adient, Adient's U.S. affiliates could be limited in their ability to use their U.S. tax attributes, if any, to offset taxable income resulting from certain transactions, or could otherwise have their U.S. taxable income increased.. Adient's status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes could be affected by a change in law.. Under current law, Adient is expected to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and Section 7874 is not otherwise expected to apply to Adient or its affiliates as a result of the separation. However, changes to the rules contained in Section 7874 and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or other changes in law, could adversely affect Adient's and/or its affiliates' status as foreign corporations for U.S. federal tax purposes, the ability of Adient's U.S. affiliates to use certain attributes or deductions, the Adient group's effective tax rate and/or future tax planning for the Adient group, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to Adient, its shareholders and affiliates, and/or the separation and distribution.. Recent legislative and other proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as could cause Adient and/or its affiliates to be treated as U.S. corporations if the management and control of Adient or such affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the U.S. In addition, recent legislative and other proposals have aimed to expand the scope of Section 7874, or otherwise address certain perceived issues arising in connection with so-called inversion transactions.  Such proposals, if made retroactively effective to transactions completed during the period in which the separation occurred, could cause Adient and/or its affiliates to be treated as U.S. corporations for U.S federal tax purposes. In such case, the Adient group would be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated.. The IRS may assert that Section 7874 applies to the separation as a result of the merger and Adient's ability to use stock in future strategic transactions may be limited.. For purposes of Section 7874, if two or more foreign corporations directly or indirectly acquire, in the aggregate, substantially all of the properties of a U.S. corporation, and such acquisitions are treated as part of a plan or a series of related transactions, then each such foreign corporation may be treated as acquiring substantially all of the properties of such U.S. corporation. However, there is no specific guidance regarding how the percentage ownership of the former shareholders of such U.S. corporation in each such foreign corporation is determined for purposes of Section 7874 in such circumstances. The IRS may assert that, even though the Tyco merger is a separate transaction from the separation, the merger should be integrated with the separation and that Adient and/or its affiliates should therefore be treated as having acquired substantially all of the properties of the former Parent in the separation. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such assertion, the application of Section 7874 to the separation is not entirely clear. It is possible that the determination of whether the 60% Ownership Test or the 80% Ownership Test is met with respect to the separation would be made by reference to the percentage of shares of the former Parent held by the former shareholders of the former Parent after the Tyco merger by reason of holding shares in the former Parent. Under this approach, based on certain factual assumptions and current provisions of U.S. federal income tax law, it is expected that Adient would be respected as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS would not assert a different methodology and conclude that either the 60% Ownership Test or the 80% Ownership Test is satisfied. If the IRS were to prevail with such assertion, the ability of Adient's U.S. affiliates to use certain U.S. tax attributes could be limited and/or Adient or its foreign affiliates could be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. If Adient or its affiliates were to be subject to such limitations or to be so treated, significant adverse tax consequences would result. In addition, if Adient were treated as acquiring substantially all of the assets of a U.S. corporation then the applicable rules would exclude the shares of Adient stock attributable to that acquisition for purposes of the 60% Ownership Test and 80% Ownership Test in a subsequent acquisition, although the validity. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 26. of such applicable rules has been challenged and this challenge has been sustained by at least one court. In such case, Adient's ability to use its stock in a future acquisition could be limited. As discussed above, these rules are new and complex, and there is limited guidance regarding their application.. Future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially adversely affect Adient.. The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where Adient and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of \"base erosion and profit shifting,\" including situations where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which Adient and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect Adient and its affiliates, including potential material adverse effects to Adient's tax rate. In particular, significant tax reform has been proposed in the U.S., potentially resulting in changes that could affect Adient, including materially adversely. The prospect of passage of such proposals is unclear.. Changes to the U.S. Model Income Tax Treaty could adversely affect Adient.. On February 17, 2016, the U.S. Treasury released a newly revised U.S. model income tax convention (the \"model\"), which is the baseline text used by the U.S. Treasury to negotiate tax treaties. The new model treaty provisions were preceded by draft versions released by the U.S. Treasury on May 20, 2015 (the \"May 2015 draft\") for public comment. The revisions made to the model address certain aspects of the model by modifying existing provisions and introducing entirely new provisions. Specifically, the new provisions target (i) permanent establishments subject to little or no foreign tax, (ii) special tax regimes, (iii) \"expatriated entities\" subject to Section 7874, (iv) the anti-treaty shopping measures of the limitation on benefits article and (v) subsequent changes in treaty partners' tax laws.. With respect to the new model provisions pertaining to expatriated entities, because, as described above, Adient does not believe it is an \"expatriated entity\" as defined in Section 7874, payments of interest, dividends, royalties and certain other items of income by or to Adient's U.S. affiliates to or from non-U.S. persons would not be expected to become subject to full U.S. withholding tax, even if applicable treaties were subsequently amended to adopt the new model provisions. In response to comments that the U.S. Treasury received regarding the May 2015 draft, the new model treaty provisions pertaining to expatriated entities fix the definition of \"expatriated entity\" to the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 7874(a)(2)(A) as of the date the relevant bilateral treaty is signed. As discussed above, the rules under Section 7874 are relatively new, complex and are the subject of current and future legislative and regulatory changes. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that the separation does not result in the creation of an \"expatriated entity\" (within the meaning of Section 7874) under current law or law as in effect at the time the applicable treaty were amended or that any such challenge by the IRS would not be sustained by a court, or that such position would not be affected by future or regulatory action which may apply retroactively to the separation.. Legislative and other proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect Adient if adopted.. Various U.S. federal and state legislative and other proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies (and subsidiaries of U.S. companies) that move (or have moved) their corporate location abroad may affect Adient and/or its affiliates if adopted. It is difficult to predict the likelihood that any such proposals might be adopted, the nature of the regulations that might be promulgated, or the effect such adoptions and increased regulatory scrutiny might have on Adient's business.. Ordinary shares of Adient received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.. Irish capital acquisitions tax, or CAT (currently levied at a rate of 33% above certain tax free thresholds), could apply to a gift or inheritance of Adient ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because Adient ordinary shares are regarded as property situated in Ireland for CAT purposes. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.. Transfers of Adient ordinary shares, other than by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. It is expected that, for the majority of transfers of Adient ordinary shares, there will not be any Irish stamp duty. Transfers of Adient ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, which we refer to as DTC, are not subject to Irish stamp duty. But if Adient ordinary shares are held directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of Adient ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid. Adient plc | Form 10-K |. 27. or the market value of the shares acquired). A shareholder who directly holds Adient ordinary shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through DTC (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided that there is no change in the beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares by a beneficial owner to a third party.. Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of Adient ordinary shares.. In certain circumstances, dividends paid by Adient may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. In certain circumstances, Irish dividend withholding tax (\"DWT\") (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on Adient ordinary shares. A number of exemptions from DWT exist pursuant to which shareholders resident in the United States and shareholders resident in certain countries may be entitled to exemptions from DWT.. Please note the requirement to complete certain relevant Irish Revenue Commissioners DWT forms (\"DWT Forms\") in order to qualify for many of the exemptions.. Dividends paid in respect of Adient ordinary shares that are owned by a U.S. resident and held through DTC will not be subject to DWT provided the address of the beneficial owner of such shares in the records of the broker holding such shares is recorded as being in the United States (and such broker has further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by Adient). Similarly, dividends paid in respect of Adient ordinary shares that are held outside of DTC and are owned by a resident of the United States will not be subject to DWT if such shareholder satisfies the conditions of one of the exemptions including the requirement to furnish a completed IRS Form 6166 or a valid DWT Form to Adient's transfer agent to confirm U.S. residence and claim an exemption. Adient shareholders resident in other countries may also be eligible for exemption from DWT on dividends paid in respect of their Adient ordinary shares provided they satisfy the conditions of one of the exemptions including the requirement to furnish valid DWT Forms to their brokers (in respect of such shares held through DTC) (and such broker has further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by Adient) or to Adient's transfer agent (in respect of such shares held outside of DTC). Other Adient shareholders may be subject to DWT, which could adversely affect the price of Adient ordinary shares."
