[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of ADTRAN. ADTRAN and its representatives may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC and other communications with our stockholders. Generally, the words, \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"estimate,\" \"anticipate,\" \"will,\" \"may,\" \"could\" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause these statements to be wrong. Some of these uncertainties and other factors are listed below. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important factors, we caution investors that other factors may prove to be important in the future in affecting our operating results. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of these factors, nor can we assess the impact each factor or combination of factors may have on our business.. You are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on those forward-looking statements because they speak only of our views as of the date the statements were made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. The following are some of the risks that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements:. Our operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect our stock price.. Our operating results have been and will continue to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to:. •  Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to significant network expansion projects undertaken by CSPs;. •  Continued growth of communications network traffic and the adoption of communication services and applications by enterprise and consumer end users;. •  Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue;. •  Reductions in demand for our traditional products as new technologies gain acceptance;. •  Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments;. •  Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation;. •  The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers;. •  Our dependence on sales of our products by channel partners, the timing of their replenishment orders, the potential for conflicts and competition involving our channel partners and large end-user customers and the potential for consolidation among our channel partners;. •  Variations in sales channels, product cost or mix of products and services sold;. •  Delays in receiving acceptance from certain customers as defined under contract, for shipments or services performed near the end of a reporting period;. •  Our ability to maintain high levels of product support and professional services;. 11. •  Manufacturing and customer order lead times;. •  Fluctuations in our gross margin, and the factors that contribute to this as described below;. •  Our ability to achieve cost reductions;. •  The ability of our customers, channel partners, and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures;. •  Our ability to execute on our strategy and operating plans;. •  Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and marketing activities;. •  The effects of climate change and other natural events;. •  The effect of political or economic conditions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or other unrest in certain international markets; and. •  Changes in tax laws and regulations, or accounting pronouncements.. As a result, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the above mentioned factors, or other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow that could adversely affect our stock price.. Our revenue for a particular period can be difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results.. As a result of the many factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict and will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our typical pattern of customer orders requests product delivery within a short period following receipt of an order. Consequently, we do not typically carry a significant order backlog and are dependent upon obtaining orders and completing delivery in accordance with shipping terms that are predominantly within each quarter to achieve our targeted revenues. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in previous quarters or may decline. Our deployment/installation cycle can vary depending on the customer's schedule, site readiness, network size and complexity and other factors, which can cause our revenue to fluctuate from period to period. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be affected if the variable sales patterns seen in prior quarters recur in future quarters. We have experienced periods of time during which manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to variable shipping patterns. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in quarters in which we and our subcontractors are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to remediate the conditions within the same quarter.. In the past, under certain market conditions, long manufacturing lead times have caused our customers to place the same order multiple times. When this multiple ordering occurs, along with other factors, it may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our operating results.. Economic conditions may contribute to a slowdown in communications industry spending, including specific market segments in which we operate. The potential reoccurrence of these trends and their duration and depth are difficult to predict. Capital spending for network infrastructure projects of our largest customers could be delayed or cancelled in response to reduced consumer spending, tight capital markets or declining liquidity trends. Sustained trends of this nature could have a material, adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. 12. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and distributors may make it difficult to collect accounts receivable and could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow.. Most of our sales are made on an open credit basis, frequently with payment terms of 30 to 45 days in the U.S. and typically longer in many geographic markets outside the U.S. As our international sales grow, our total accounts receivable balance will likely increase. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) could also increase as a result of greater mix of international sales. Additionally, international laws may not provide the same degree of protection against defaults on accounts receivable as provided under U.S. laws governing domestic transactions; therefore, as our international business grows, we may be subject to higher bad debt expense compared to historical trends. Overall, we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts that we believe customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. We may be exposed to similar credit risks relating to collections from distributors of our products, and we apply similar processes to monitor and reserve for any exposures. Turmoil in the financial markets could impact certain of our customers' ability to maintain adequate credit facilities with financial institutions, thereby potentially impacting their ability to pay their debts. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take appropriate measures to collect accounts receivable balances, there are no assurances we can avoid accounts receivable write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and could potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. We expect gross margins to vary over time, and our levels of product and services gross margins may not be sustainable.. Our level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:. •  Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including software and the mix of configurations and professional services revenue within each product group;. •  Introduction of new products by competitors, including products with price-performance advantages;. •  Our ability to reduce product cost;. •  Increases in material or labor cost;. •  Foreign currency exchange rate movements;. •  Expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements;. •  Excess inventory and inventory holding charges;. •  Obsolescence charges;. •  Changes in shipment volume;. •  Our ability to absorb fixed manufacturing costs during short-term fluctuations in customer demand;. •  Loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand;. •  Lower than expected benefits from value engineering;. •  Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially China;. •  Changes in distribution channels;. •  Increased warranty cost;. •  Liquidated damages costs relating to customer contractual terms; and. •  Our ability to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations relating to our accounts receivable and accounts payable.. 13. We must continue to update and improve our products and develop new products to compete and to keep pace with improvements in communications technology.. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and continuing improvements in the communications service offerings of CSPs. If technologies or standards applicable to our products, or CSP offerings based on our products, become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our existing products or products under development may become obsolete or unmarketable. Moreover, the introduction of products embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in CSP offerings could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. For instance, we offer a large number of products that apply primarily to the delivery of high-speed digital communications over the local loop utilizing copper wire. We compete favorably with our competitors by developing a high-performance line of these products. We market products that apply to fiber optic transport in the local loop. We expect, however, that use of coaxial cable and mobile wireless access in place of local loop access will increase. Also, MSOs are increasing their presence in the local loop. To meet the requirements of these new delivery systems and to maintain our market position, we expect to continue to develop new products and/or modify existing products. We expect that our recent acquisition of EPON and RFoG products from a third party will better position us to compete in this adjacent market.. Our sales and profitability in the past have, to a significant extent, resulted from our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and CSP offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. Our continued ability to adapt will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to respond effectively to changes in technology, industry standards, CSP offerings or new product announcements by our competitors. We also cannot assure that we will be able to successfully develop and market new products or product enhancements, or that these products or enhancements will achieve market acceptance. Should the rate of decline in sales of certain traditional TDM based products exceed the rate of market acceptance and growth in sales of our newer IP-based products, our revenues may be adversely affected. Any failure by us to continue to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to changes in technology, industry standards, CSP offerings, or new product announcements by our competitors, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to competitively market our products and on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Our products may not continue to comply with evolving regulations governing their sale, which may harm our business.. Our products must comply with various regulations, regional standards established by communications authorities, import/export control authorities or other authorities who control the execution of trade agreements in various countries, as well as those of certain international bodies. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries in which we currently sell, there can be no assurance that we will be able to design our products to comply with evolving standards and regulations in the future. Changes in domestic or international communications regulations, tariffs, potential changes in trade policies by the U.S. and other nations, application requirements, import/export controls or expansion of regulation to new areas, including access, communications or commerce over the Internet, may affect customer demand for our products or slow the adoption of new technologies which may affect our sales. Further, the cost of complying with the evolving standards and regulations, or the failure to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certification such that we may not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. 14. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws associated with our global activities could subject us to penalties or other adverse consequences.. A significant portion of our total revenues is generated from sales outside of the U.S. As a result, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of directing, obtaining or keeping business, and requires companies to maintain reasonable books and records and a system of internal accounting controls. The FCPA applies to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by employees, strategic or local partners or other representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere could seek to impose civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. To help ensure that we remain compliant with FCPA, we have proactively implemented internally and externally focused measures and controls to address this risk. We help ensure that our employees understand the key requirements of FCPA compliance and the consequences of non-compliance through training courses and detective controls. ADTRAN senior management and employees whose responsibilities include international activities are required to complete an online training program and pass an exam every two years. We have put processes in place to help detect non-compliance through providing our employees access to a worldwide reporting \"hotline\", available by phone and online, that is maintained by a third party provider. Finally, we perform annual reviews of our employees' expense reports and corporate credit card activity to identify possible corruption concerns. We have also implemented controls to help ensure our third party partners and customers observe FCPA requirements. Prior to selling to new international distributors, resellers or agents, we review third party data and check them against over 200 denied party lists from government institutions worldwide for potential FCPA concerns. We also require international distributors, resellers and agents complete an Anti-Corruption Due Diligence Questionnaire, which is reviewed and assessed by a cross-functional compliance committee and our export compliance function.. We are subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. Violations of these laws and regulations may harm our business.. A wide variety of provincial, state, national and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of data, including personal data. Foreign data protection, privacy and other laws and regulations, including the European Union's (EU) recently enacted General Data Protection Regulation, are often more restrictive than those in the U.S. These data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are varied, evolving, can be subject to significant change, may be augmented or replaced by new or additional laws and regulations, and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. If we violate these laws and regulations, governmental authorities in the U.S., the EU and elsewhere could seek to impose civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely impact our results of operations.. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products may require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with any of these applicable requirements could result in regulatory penalties, legal claims or disruption of production. In addition, our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or liabilities. Existing and future environmental regulations may restrict our use of certain materials to manufacture, assemble and test products. Any of these consequences could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes.. If our products do not interoperate with our customers' networks, installations may be delayed or cancelled, which could harm our business.. Our products must interface with existing networks, each of which may have different specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards and incorporate products from other vendors. Many of our customers' networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products may be required to interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks, as well as future products to meet our customers' requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers' networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate with the existing software and hardware. Implementation of product corrections involving interoperability issues could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Such issues may affect our ability to obtain product acceptance from other customers.. 15. The lengthy sales and approval process required by major and other CSPs for new products could result in fluctuations in our revenue.. In the industry in which we compete, sales and approval cycles are often lengthy. Selling efforts often involve a significant commitment of time and resources by us and our customers that may include extensive product testing, laboratory or network certification, or region-specific product certification and homologation requirements for deployment in networks. Additionally, a supplier must first obtain product approval from a major or other CSP to sell its products to them. This process can last from six to 18 months, or longer, depending on the technology, the CSP, and the demand for the product from the CSP's subscribers. Consequently, we are involved in a constant process of submitting for approval succeeding generations of products, as well as products that deploy new technology or respond to new technology demands from a major or other CSP. We have been successful in the past in obtaining these approvals; however, we cannot be certain that we will obtain these approvals in the future or that sales of these products will continue to occur. Any attempt by a major or other CSP to seek out additional or alternative suppliers, or to undertake, as permitted under applicable regulations, the production of these products internally, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the delay in sales until the completion of the approval process, the length of which is difficult to predict, could result in fluctuations of revenue and uneven operating results from quarter to quarter or year to year.. We engage in research and development activities to improve the application of developed technologies, and as a consequence may miss certain market opportunities enjoyed by larger companies with substantially greater research and development efforts which may focus on more leading-edge development.. A portion of our research and development activities are focused on the refinement and redefinition of access technologies that are currently accepted and commonly practiced, which may include emerging technologies not yet widely distributed across all networks. These research and development efforts result in improved applications of technologies for which demand already exists or is latent. We rarely engage in research projects that represent a vast departure from the current business practices of our key customers. This includes pioneering new services and participating in leading-edge field trials or demonstration projects for new technologies. While we believe our strategy provides a higher likelihood of producing nearer term revenue streams, this strategy could reduce our ability to influence industry standards and share in the establishment of intellectual property rights associated with new technologies, and could result in lost revenue opportunities should a new technology achieve rapid and widespread market acceptance.. We depend heavily on sales to certain customers; the loss of any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and net income.. Historically, a large percentage of our sales have been made to major CSPs and larger independent communications companies. In 2017, these customers continued to comprise over half of our revenue. As long as the major and larger independent communications companies represent such a substantial percentage of our total sales, our future success will significantly depend upon certain factors which are not within our control, including:. •  the timing and size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers;. •  changes in strategic plans of these customers;. •  the product requirements of these customers;. •  the financial and operational success of these customers;. •  the impact of legislative and regulatory changes on these customers;. •  the success of these customers' services deployed using our products; and. •  the impact of work stoppages at these customers.. In the past, sales to our large customers have fluctuated and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. The loss of, or a significant reduction or delay in, sales to any such customer or the occurrence of sales fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, any attempt by a major or other CSP to seek out additional or alternative suppliers or to undertake, as permitted under applicable regulations, the production of these products internally, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. 16. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This could lead to variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, particularly in the CSP market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that a loss of a major customer could have a material impact on our results that we would not have anticipated in a marketplace composed of more numerous participants.. If we are unable to integrate future acquisitions successfully, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow.. We may make acquisitions to improve or expand our product offerings, customer base, talent, or intellectual property. Our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to:. •  Difficulties integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire;. •  Our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the brand equity of businesses we acquire;. •  Our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; and. •  Our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including those which we may not anticipate.. Our strategy of outsourcing a portion of our manufacturing requirements to subcontractors located in various international regions may result in us not meeting our cost, quality or performance standards.. We are heavily dependent on subcontractors for the assembly and testing of certain printed circuit board assemblies, subassemblies, chassis, enclosures and equipment shelves, and the purchase of some raw materials used in such assemblies. This reliance involves several risks, including the unavailability of, or interruptions in, access to certain process technologies and reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, transportation, manufacturing yields and costs. We may not be able to provide product order volumes to our subcontractors that are high enough to achieve sufficient cost savings. If shipments fall below forecasted levels, we may incur increased costs or be required to take ownership of excess inventory. Changes in international tariff structures could adversely impact our product costs. In addition, a significant component of maintaining cost competitiveness is the ability of our subcontractors to adjust their costs to compensate for possible adverse exchange rate movements. To the extent that the subcontractors are unable to do so, and we are unable to procure alternative product supplies, then our competitiveness and results of operations could be adversely impaired. These risks may be exacerbated by economic or political uncertainties, terrorist actions, the effects of climate change, natural disasters or pandemics in the foreign countries in which our subcontractors are located.. To date, we believe that we have successfully managed the risks of our dependence on these subcontractors through a variety of efforts, which include seeking and developing alternative subcontractors while maintaining existing relationships; however, we cannot be assured that delays in product deliveries will not occur in the future because of shortages resulting from this limited number of subcontractors or from the financial or other difficulties of these parties. Our inability to develop alternative subcontractors if and as required in the future, or the need to undertake required retraining and other activities related to establishing and developing a new subcontractor relationship, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments which, in turn, could have a negative effect on our customer relationships and operating results.. 17. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and key components may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on customer relations and operating results.. Certain raw materials and key components used in our products are currently available from only one source, and others are available from only a limited number of sources. The availability of these raw materials and supplies may be subject to market forces beyond our control, such as merger and acquisition activity of our suppliers and consolidation in some segments of our supplier base. From time to time, there may not be sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies in the marketplace to meet customer demand. Many companies utilize the same raw materials and supplies that we do in the production of their products. Companies with more resources than our own may have a competitive advantage in obtaining raw materials and supplies due to greater buying power. These factors can result in reduced supply, higher prices of raw materials, and delays in the receipt of certain of our key components, which in turn may generate increased costs, lower margins, and delays in product delivery, with a corresponding adverse effect on revenues and customer relationships. Furthermore, due to general economic conditions in the U.S. and globally, our suppliers may experience financial difficulties, which could result in increased delays, additional costs, or loss of a supplier. We attempt to manage these risks through developing alternative sources, by staging inventories at strategic locations, through engineering efforts designed to obviate the necessity of certain components, and by building long-term relationships and close contact with each of our key suppliers; however, we cannot assure you that delays in or failures of deliveries of key components, either to us or to our contract manufacturers, and consequent delays in product deliveries, will not occur in the future.. In addition, the SEC has adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures to identify the source of such minerals included in manufactured products. The disclosures will require us to incur additional costs to verify the origins of the identified minerals used and comply with disclosure requirements. These requirements could affect the availability of minerals used in the manufacture of a limited number of parts contained in our products. This may reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad-based and multi-tiered. While we are taking steps to identify sourcing based on recommended standards for our industry, we may not be able to conclusively verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. An inability to make a sourcing determination of minerals in our products could impact our revenues and harm our financial condition should our customers require that we certify that all components used in our products are free of minerals from this region.. We compete in markets that have become increasingly competitive, which may result in reduced gross profit margins and market share.. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. Additional manufacturers have entered the markets in recent years to offer products in competition with us. Additionally, certain companies have, in recent years, developed the ability to deliver competing products using coaxial cable and cellular transmission, especially in high-density metropolitan areas. Competition will further increase if new companies enter the market or existing competitors expand their product lines. Some of these potential competitors may have greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and personnel resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more rapidly or effectively to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, withstand significant price decreases, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we can.. In addition, our present and future competitors may be able to enter our existing or future markets with products or technologies comparable or superior to those that we offer. An increase in competition could cause us to reduce prices, decrease our market share, require increased spending by us on product development and sales and marketing, or cause delays or cancellations in customer orders, any one of which could reduce our gross profit margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 18. Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change due to product failure rates, installation and shipment volumes, field service repair obligations and other rework costs incurred in correcting product failures. If our estimates change, the liability for warranty obligations may be increased or decreased, impacting future cost of goods sold.. Our products are highly complex, and we cannot ensure that our extensive product development, manufacturing and integration testing will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues. Quality or performance problems for products covered under warranty could adversely impact our reputation and negatively affect our operating results, financial position and cash flow. The development and production of new products with high complexity often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. If significant warranty obligations arise due to reliability or quality issues arising from defects in software, faulty components, or manufacturing methods, our operating results, financial position and cash flow could be negatively impacted by:. •  costs associated with fixing software or hardware defects;. •  costs associated with internal or third-party installation errors;. •  high service and warranty expenses;. •  high inventory obsolescence expense;. •  delays in collecting accounts receivable;. •  payment of liquidated damages for performance failures; and. •  a decline in sales to existing customers.. Managing our inventory is complex and may include write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory.. Managing our inventory of components and finished products is complicated by a number of factors, including the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain components that are in short supply, have been discontinued by the component manufacturer, that must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing or that require long lead times. These issues may result in our purchasing and maintaining significant amounts of inventory, which if not used or expected to be used based on anticipated production requirements, may become excess or obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could also result in sales price reductions and/or inventory write- downs, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The continuing growth of our international operations could expose us to additional risks, increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow.. We are expanding our presence in international markets, which represented 24.0% of our net sales for 2017, and as a result, we anticipate increased sales and operating costs in these markets. This international expansion may increase our operational risks and impact our results of operations, including:. •  Exposure to unfavorable commercial terms in certain countries;. •  The time and cost to staff and manage foreign operations;. •  The time and cost to maintain good relationships with employee associations and works councils;. •  The time and cost to ensure adequate business interruption controls, processes and facilities;. •  The time and cost to manage and evolve financial reporting systems, maintain effective financial disclosure controls and procedures, and comply with corporate governance requirements in multiple jurisdictions;. •  The cost to collect accounts receivable and extension of collection periods;. •  The cost and potential disruption of facilities transitions required in some business acquisitions;. •  Less regulation of patents or other safeguards of intellectual property in certain countries;. •  Potential impact of adverse tax, customs regulations and transfer-pricing issues;. •  Exposure to global social, political and economic instability, changes in economic conditions, and foreign currency exchange rate movements;. •  Potential exposure to liability or damage of reputation resulting from a higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices in some countries;. •  Potential regulations on data protection, regarding the collection, use, disclosure and security of data;. 19. •  Potential trade protection measures, export compliance issues, domestic preference procurement requirements, qualification to transact business and additional regulatory requirements; and. •  Potential exposure to natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war or terrorism.. If we are unable to successfully address the potential risks associated with our overall international expansion, our operating results, financial condition and cash flow may be negatively impacted.. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. As our international sales increase or as utilization of international suppliers expands, we may transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. currency. As a result, we will be subject to the possibility of greater effects of foreign currency exchange translation on our financial statements. Sales contract commitments and accounts receivable balances based on foreign currency expose us to potential risk of loss as the value of the U.S. dollar fluctuates over time. In addition, for those countries outside the U.S. where we have significant sales or significant purchases of supplies, devaluation in the local currency could make our products more expensive for customers to purchase or increase our costs, thereby adversely affecting our competitiveness or results of operation. When appropriate, we may enter into various derivative transactions to enhance our ability to manage the volatility relating to these typical business exposures. If used, the derivative transactions will be intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements; therefore, we generally would not anticipate hedging all outstanding foreign currency risk. There can be no assurance that exchange rate fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our revenue from international sales, manufacturing costs, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Our success depends on our ability to reduce the selling prices of succeeding generations of our products.. Our strategy is to increase unit sales volumes and market share each year by introducing succeeding generations of products having lower selling prices and increased functionality as compared to prior generations of products. To maintain or increase our revenues and margins while continuing this strategy, we must continue, in some combination, to increase sales volumes of existing products, introduce and sell new products, or reduce our per unit costs at rates sufficient to compensate for the reduced revenue effect of continuing reductions in the average sales prices of our products. We cannot ensure that we will be able to maintain or increase revenues or margins by increasing unit sales volumes of our products, introducing and selling new products, or reducing unit costs of our products.. We are currently evaluating implementation of a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) software solution. If we do not appropriately manage this project, our operations could be significantly disrupted.. We are currently evaluating implementation of a new ERP software solution. This project could have a significant impact on our business processes, information systems, and internal controls, and will require significant change management, meaningful investment in capital and personnel resources, and coordination of numerous software and system providers and internal business teams. We may experience difficulties as we manage these changes and transition to a new ERP solution, including loss or corruption of data, delayed shipments, decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with the new systems and processes, unanticipated expenses (including increased costs of implementation or costs of conducting business), and lost revenues. Difficulties in implementing a new ERP solution could disrupt our operations, divert management's attention from key strategic initiatives, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow.. 20. Breaches of our information systems and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property and cause significant damage to our business and reputation.. We maintain sensitive data on our information systems and the networks of third-party providers, including intellectual property, financial data and proprietary or confidential business information relating to our business, customers, suppliers, and business partners. We also produce networking equipment solutions and software used by network operators to ensure security and reliability in their management and transmission of data. Our customers, particularly those in regulated industries, are increasingly focused on the security features of our technology solutions and maintaining the security of information sensitive to us and our business partners is critical to our business and reputation. We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key operations and financial functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical. Companies are increasingly subjected to cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. We have multiple layers of access control and devote significant resources to data encryption and other security measures to protect our information technology and communications systems. We test our vulnerability periodically and take action to further secure our networks, yet our network and storage applications and those systems and storage applications maintained by our third-party providers, may be subject to unauthorized access by cyber-attack or breached due to operator error, fraudulent activity or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or immediately detect damage caused by such incidents. Unauthorized access or disclosure of our information could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information. Our information systems are designed to appropriate industry standards to reduce downtime in the event of power outages, weather or climate events and cyber-security issues. A significant failure of our systems due to these issues could result in significant remediation costs, disrupt business operations, and divert management attention, which could result in harm to our business reputation, operating results, financial condition and cash flow.. Our failure to maintain rights to intellectual property used in our business could adversely affect the development, functionality, and commercial value of our products.. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology by contract, trademark, copyright and patent registration, and internal security, these protections may not be adequate. Furthermore, our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. From time to time, we receive and may continue to receive notices of claims alleging that we are infringing upon patents or other intellectual property. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees; divert our management's time, attention and resources; delay our product shipments; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any claims or litigation over alleged infringements, or whether we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents, or other intellectual property, on commercially reasonable terms. If a claim of intellectual property infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flow could be affected adversely.. Software under license from third-parties for use in certain of our products may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms.. We integrate third-party software into certain of our products. Licenses for this technology may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Difficulties with third-party technology licensors could result in termination of such licenses, which may result in increased costs or require us to purchase or develop a substitute technology. Difficulty obtaining and maintaining third-party technology licenses may disrupt development of our products and increase our costs, which could harm our business.. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products.. Several of our solutions utilize elements of open source or publicly available software. Although we closely monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by the courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. In such event, we could be required to make our proprietary software generally available to third parties, including competitors, at no cost, to seek licenses from third-parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or at all, any of which could adversely affect our revenues and operating expenses.. 21. We may incur liabilities or become subject to litigation that would have a material effect on our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we accept purchase orders, and enter into sales and other related contracts, for the marketing, sale, manufacture, distribution, or use of our products and services. We may incur liabilities relating to our performance under such agreements, or which result from damage claims arising from certain events as outlined within the particular contract. While we attempt to structure all agreements to include normal protection clauses, such agreements may not always contain, or be subject to, maximum loss clauses, and liabilities arising from them may result in significant adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including employment disputes, patent claims, disputes over contract agreements and other commercial disputes. In some cases, claimants seek damages, or other relief, such as royalty payments related to patents, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures. Any such disputes may be resolved before trial, or if litigated, may be resolved in our favor; however, the cost of claims sustained in litigation, and costs associated with the litigation process, may not be covered by our insurance. Such costs, and the demands on management time during such an event, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Consolidation and deterioration in the Competitive Local Exchange Carrier (CLEC) market could result in a significant decrease in our revenue.. We sell a moderate volume of products directly or indirectly to CLECs who compete with the established ILECs. The CLEC market is experiencing a process of consolidation. Many of our CLEC customers do not have a strong financial position and have limited ability to access the public financial markets for additional funding for growth and operations. If one or more of these CLECs fail, we could face a loss in revenue and an increased bad debt expense, due to their inability to pay outstanding invoices, as well as the corresponding decrease in customer base and future revenue. Furthermore, significant portions of our sales to CLECs are made through independent distributors. The failure of one or more CLECs could also negatively affect the financial position of a distributor to the point that the distributor could also experience business failure and/or default on payments to us.. We depend on distributors who maintain inventories of our products. If the distributors reduce their inventories of these products, our sales could be adversely affected.. We work closely with our distributors to monitor channel inventory levels and ensure that appropriate levels of product are available to resellers and end users. If our distributors reduce their levels of inventory of our products, our sales would be negatively impacted during the period of change.. If we are unable to successfully develop and maintain relationships with system integrators, CSPs, and enterprise VARs, our sales may be negatively affected.. As part of our sales strategy, we are targeting system integrators (SIs), CSPs, and enterprise VARs. In addition to specialized technical expertise, SIs, CSPs and VARs typically offer sophisticated service capabilities that are frequently desired by enterprise customers. To expand our distribution channel to include resellers with such capabilities, we must be able to provide effective support to these resellers. If our sales, marketing or service capabilities are not sufficient to provide effective support to such SIs, CSPs and VARs, our sales may be negatively affected, and current SI, CSP and VAR partners may terminate their relationships with us, which would adversely impact our sales and overall results of operations.. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial and securities markets successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted.. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. The primary objective of the large majority of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time achieving appropriate yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable securities are investment grade corporate and municipal fixed-rate bonds, and municipal money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. Our investment policy provides limitations for issuer concentration, which limits, at the time of purchase, the concentration in any one issuer to 5% of the market value of our total investment portfolio.. 22. We have significant investments in corporate bonds, municipal fixed-rate bonds, asset-backed bonds, mortgage/agency-backed bonds, U.S. government bonds and foreign government bonds. Through December 31, 2017, we have not been required to impair any of these investments; however, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity in these investments, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Fixed-rate interest securities may have their fair value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while variable-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may increase because of conditions in the financial markets and related credit liquidity issues. Consequently, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in fair value due to changes in interest rates.. At December 31, 2017, our long-term investments included $35.7 million of marketable equity securities, which included 346 unique securities, and had total net unrealized gains of $2.2 million. If market conditions deteriorate in 2018, we may be required to record impairment charges related to our marketable equity securities.. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7, Part II of this report and \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" in Item 7A, Part II of this report for more information about our investments.. New or revised tax regulations, changes in our effective tax rate, or assessments arising from tax audits may have an adverse impact on our results.. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally, in which we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our provision for income taxes, and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex and sometimes uncertain tax laws and regulations. Many of these jurisdictions have made changes to their tax policies or are contemplating changes, or have unpredictable enforcement activity. Increases in applicable tax rates, implementation of new taxes, changes in applicable tax laws and interpretations of these tax laws and actions by tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate could reduce our after-tax income and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and by changes in tax rules and regulations. For instance, the accounting of uncertain tax positions and the amount of our estimated tax deduction for manufacturer's domestic production activities under Internal Revenue Code Section 199 may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. We currently receive corporate income tax credits under a program administered by the Alabama State Industrial Development Authority in connection with revenue bonds issued to provide funding for expansion of our corporate facilities. We cannot be certain that the state of Alabama will continue to make these corporate income tax credits available; therefore, we may not realize the full benefit of these incentives, which would increase our effective tax rate. Also, employment-related tax benefits are currently accounted for in our effective tax rate. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and various other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act) was signed into law. As a result of the Act, we have recognized an estimated expense of $11.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, of which $9.2 million related to the write-down of deferred tax assets and $2.7 million related to tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings. We have calculated our best estimate of the impact of the Act in our year-end income tax provision, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which was issued to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed to finalize the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act. Additional work is necessary to do a more detailed analysis of historical foreign earnings, as well as the full impact relating to the write-down of deferred tax assets. Any subsequent adjustments to these amounts will be recorded as income tax expense in the quarter the analysis is complete.. We are required to periodically evaluate the value of our long-lived assets, including the value of intangibles acquired and goodwill resulting from business acquisitions. Any future impairment charges required may adversely affect our operating results.. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These assumptions are used to forecast future, undiscounted cash flows. Forecasting future business trends is difficult and subject to modification. Should actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to reassess long-lived assets and could record an impairment charge. Any impairment charge relating to long-lived assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period.. 23. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plans. Our restructuring efforts may adversely affect our business and our operating results.. We have undertaken restructuring efforts to realign our organization to better match our market opportunities, technology development initiatives and improve efficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the anticipated benefits to future financial results from our efforts. This realignment could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy by diverting management's attention from normal daily operations, decreasing cash flow and operating results due to severance payments and facility termination costs, and could be disruptive to our business. If we fail to realize some or all of the expected benefits of this realignment, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel.. Our business has grown significantly since its inception. Our success is dependent in large part on the continued employment of our executive officers, including Thomas R. Stanton, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key management personnel. The unplanned departure of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect our business. In addition, for ADTRAN to continue as a successful entity we must also be able to attract and retain key engineers and technicians whose expertise helps us maintain competitive advantages. We believe that our future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to continue to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly-skilled employees who are in great demand. Stock awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and to provide incentives for them to remain with us. Changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Properly managing our continued growth, avoiding the problems often resulting from such growth and expansion, and continuing to operate in the manner which has proven successful to us to date will be critical to the future success of our business.. Regulatory and potential physical impacts of climate change and other natural events may affect our customers and our production operations, resulting in adverse effects on our operating results.. There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the atmosphere, affecting large-scale weather patterns and the global climate. It appears that some form of U.S. federal regulation related to greenhouse gas emissions may occur, and any such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances. The impact of any future legislation, regulations or product specification requirements on our products and business operations is dependent on the design of the final mandate or standard, so we are unable to predict its significance at this time.. The potential physical impacts of climate change and other natural events on our customers, suppliers, and on our operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These events may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, ocean levels, temperature levels, earthquakes and tsunamis. These potential physical effects may adversely affect our revenues, costs, production and delivery schedules, and cause harm to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. While we believe our internal control over financial reporting is adequate, a failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as our business expands could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, and issue a report that states whether or not such internal control is effective. Compliance with these requirements requires significant cost and the commitment of time and staff resources. Expansion of our business, particularly in international geographies, necessitates ongoing changes to our internal control systems, processes and information systems. We cannot be certain that as this expansion occurs, our current design for internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to enable management or our independent registered public accounting firm to determine that our internal control is effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. The price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADTN. Since our initial public offering in August 1994, there has been, and may continue to be, significant volatility in the market for our common stock, based on a variety of factors, including factors listed in this section, some of which are beyond our control.. 24"
