[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Please carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.. Risks Relating to Restatements and Our Financial Reporting Process. The restatements of our previously issued financial statements and the related claims, investigations and proceedings arising out of the Prior Restatement have been time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to additional risks that would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (the \"Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K\"), we restated our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, as well as each of the first three quarters in fiscal 2015 and for all of the quarterly periods in fiscal 2014 (the \"Prior Restatement\"). We also restated our financial results for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, as summarized in \"Item 6. Selected Financial and Operating Data\" to our Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K. In addition, as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 (the \"Fiscal 2016 Form 10-K\"), we restated our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended. 12. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 as well as each of the quarters in fiscal 2016 and 2015 (the \"Stock-Based Compensation Restatement\"). Both the Prior Restatement and the Stock-Based Compensation Restatement were time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to a number of additional risks that would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. In particular, we incurred significant expense, including audit, legal, consulting and other professional fees in connection with the Prior Restatement and the Stock-Based Compensation Restatement. Expenses incurred during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 as a result of the Prior Restatements were approximately $4 million, $24 million and $28 million, respectively. We have also incurred significant expenses in connection with the remediation of the weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as further described below.. While we have remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to the Prior Restatement, we may identify other material weaknesses in the future which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We had previously identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that related to the matters associated with the Prior Restatement, which material weaknesses have been remediated. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. While we have remediated those previously identified material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that our controls will remain adequate. Any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatement in our consolidated financial statements. Any new misstatement could result in a further restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our disclosure controls and internal controls will become more complex, and we may require significantly more resources to ensure the effectiveness of these controls. If we are unable to continue upgrading our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, additional management and other resources may need to be devoted to assist in compliance with the disclosure and financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. The Prior Restatement of our previously issued financial results has resulted in an ongoing investigation by the SEC as well as private litigation, and could result in additional litigation, government investigations and enforcement actions that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows.. As further described below under \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings,\" the accounting errors and internal control problems disclosed in the Prior Restatement have been the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC's Division of Enforcement (\"Enforcement Division\"). The Company has continued to cooperate with the SEC investigation and recently has engaged in discussions with the staff of the Enforcement Division about a potential resolution. As part of settlement discussions the Company has submitted a formal offer of settlement to the Enforcement Division. The accounting errors and internal control problems disclosed in the Prior Restatement were also the subject of a putative class action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. While the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit denied a petition for rehearing on an order affirming dismissal of the class action on November 28, 2017 (and the plaintiff did not seek Supreme Court review), we could become subject to. 13. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. additional litigation or government investigations and enforcement actions arising out of the Prior Restatement, the Stock-Based Compensation Restatement, as well as any delinquent Exchange Act filings.. To date our management has devoted significant time and attention related to these matters, and we may be required to devote even more time and attention to such matters in the future, and these and any additional matters that arise could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The terms of the SEC settlement offer described above remain subject to approval of the Commission and there can be no assurance that our efforts to resolve the SEC's investigation will be successful or that the settlement amount will be as anticipated, and we cannot predict the ultimate timing or outcome of the Commission's consideration. Although we maintain insurance that may provide coverage for some of these expenses (excluding any civil monetary penalties that may be imposed by the Commission as part of its investigation as referenced above), and we have given notice to our insurers of the claims, there is risk that the insurers will rescind or otherwise not renew the policies, that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies, or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance. For additional discussion of these matters, see \"Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies  -  Litigation\" to our audited consolidated financial statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Fluctuations in the price and availability of resins, our principal raw materials, and our inability to obtain adequate supplies of resins from suppliers and pass on resin price increases to customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The principal raw materials that we use in our high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe and Allied Products are virgin and recycled resins. Our ability to operate profitably depends, to a large extent, on the markets for these resins. In particular, as resins are derived either directly or indirectly from crude oil derivatives and natural gas liquids, resin prices fluctuate substantially as a result of changes in crude oil and natural gas prices, changes in existing processing capabilities and the capacity of resin suppliers. The petrochemical industry historically has been cyclical and volatile. The cycles are generally characterized by periods of tight supply, followed by periods of oversupply, primarily resulting from significant capacity additions. For example, resin prices have increased since 2010 due to increased demand in the broader economy. Unanticipated changes in and disruptions to existing petrochemical capacities could also significantly increase resin prices, often within a short period of time, even if crude oil and natural gas prices remain low.. Our ability to offer our core products depends on our ability to obtain adequate resins, which we purchase directly from major petrochemical and chemical suppliers. We maintain supply agreements with our major resin suppliers that provide multi-year terms and volumes that are in excess of our projected consumption. For our polypropylene virgin resin price exposure, we utilize financial hedges of propylene as a proxy for polypropylene. Historically, the month to month change in market based pricing has been very similar between propylene and polypropylene. The loss of, or substantial decrease in the availability of, raw materials from our suppliers, or the failure by our suppliers to continue to provide us with raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, supply interruptions could arise from labor disputes or weather conditions affecting supplies or shipments, transportation disruptions or other factors beyond our control. An extended disruption in the timely availability of raw materials from our key suppliers would result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability.. Our ability to maintain profitability heavily depends on our ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any increase in raw material costs, which are a large portion of our overall product costs. We may be unable to do so in a timely manner, or at all, due to competition in the markets in which we operate. In addition, certain of our largest customers historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their market share. If increases in the cost of raw materials cannot be passed on to our customers, or the duration of time associated with a pass through becomes extended, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected.. 14. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. Any disruption or volatility in general business and economic conditions in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services.. The markets in which we operate are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide, including availability of credit, interest rates, fluctuation in capital and business and consumer confidence. These conditions, combined with price fluctuations in crude oil derivatives and natural gas liquids, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated an economic slowdown and severe recession in recent years. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example:. •  The volatility of the United States economy in general can have an adverse effect on our sales that are dependent on the non-residential construction market. Continued uncertainty about current economic conditions to pose a risk to our business units that serve the non-residential construction market, as participants in this industry may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a continued material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services.. •  The homebuilding industry underwent a significant decline after its peak in 2005. While new housing starts demonstrated a compounded annual growth rate of 9.0% from 2012 to 2017, current levels remain below the long-term average of 1.4 million starts since the U.S. Census Bureau began reporting the data demand for our products and services in this market, which in turn had a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. •  Our business depends to a great extent upon general activity levels in the agriculture market. Changes in corn production, soybean production, farm income, farmland value and the level of farm output in the geographic locations in which we operate are all material factors that could adversely affect the agriculture market and result in a decrease in the amount of products that our customers purchase. The nature of the agriculture market is such that a downturn in demand can occur suddenly, resulting in excess inventories, un-utilized production capacity and reduced prices for pipe products. These downturns may be prolonged and our revenue and profitability would be harmed.. •  Demand for our products and services depend to a significant degree on spending on infrastructure, which is inherently cyclical. Infrastructure spending is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, including interest rates, availability and commitment of public funds for municipal spending and highway spending and general economic conditions. Our products sales may be adversely impacted by budget cuts by governments, including as a result of lower than anticipated tax revenues.. All of our markets are sensitive to changes in the broader economy. Downturns or lack of substantial improvement in the economy in any region in which we operate have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we operate in many markets, our business is particularly impacted by changes in the economies of the United States, Canada and Mexico, which represented approximately 88.3%, 7.1% and 3.5%, respectively, of our net sales for fiscal 2018 and collectively represented approximately 98.9% of our net sales for fiscal 2018.. We cannot predict the duration of current economic conditions, or the timing or strength of any future recovery of activities in our markets. Continued weakness in the market in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may have to close under-performing facilities from time to time as warranted by general economic conditions and/or weakness in the markets in which we operate. In addition to a reduction in demand for our products, these factors may also reduce the price we are able to charge for our products and restrict our ability to pass raw material cost increases to our customers. This, combined with an increase in excess capacity, will negatively impact our profitability, cash flows and our financial condition, generally.. Demand for our products and services could decrease if we are unable to compete effectively, and our success depends largely on our ability to convert current demand for competitive products into demand for our products.. We compete with both manufacturers of high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe and manufacturers of alternative products, such as concrete, steel and PVC pipe products, on the basis of a number of considerations,. 15. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. including product characteristics such as durability, design, ease of installation, price on a price-to-value basis and service. In particular, we compete on a global, national and local basis with pipe products made of traditional materials which our high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe products are designed to replace. For example, our N-12 and SaniTite HP products face competition from concrete, steel and PVC pipe products in the small- and large-diameter size segments of the market.. Our ability to successfully compete and grow depends largely on our ability to continue to convert the current demand for concrete, steel and PVC pipe products into demand for our high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe and Allied Products. Our thermoplastic pipe typically has an installed cost advantage of approximately 20% over concrete pipe. However, depending upon certain factors such as the size of the pipe, the geography of a particular location and then-existing raw material costs, the initial cost of our thermoplastic pipe may be higher than the initial cost of alternative products such as concrete, steel and PVC pipe products. To increase our market share, we will need to increase material conversion by educating our customers about the value of our products in comparison to existing alternatives, particularly on an installed cost basis, working with government agencies to expand approvals for our products and working with civil engineering firms which may influence the specification of our products on construction projects. No assurance can be given that our efforts to increase or maintain the current rate of material conversion will be successful, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We also expect that new competitors may develop over time. No assurance can be given that we will be able to respond effectively to such competitive pressures. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in sales, prices, volumes and gross margins that would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain our market share and gain market share from competitors.. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources that are greater than ours and may be better able to withstand price competition, especially with respect to traditional products. In addition, consolidation by industry participants could result in competitors with increased market share, larger customer bases, greater diversified product offerings and greater technological and marketing expertise, which would allow them to compete more effectively against us. Moreover, our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Technological advances by our competitors may lead to new manufacturing techniques and make it more difficult for us to compete. In many markets in which we operate there are no significant entry barriers that would prevent new competitors from entering the market, especially on the local level, or existing competitors from expanding in the market. In addition, because we do not have long-term arrangements with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to cease purchasing our products.. In addition, our contracts with municipalities are often awarded and renewed through periodic competitive bidding. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing these contracts on financially attractive terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the effects of weather.. Although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, adverse weather historically has reduced construction activity in our third and fourth fiscal quarters. In contrast, our highest volume of net sales historically has occurred in our first and second fiscal quarters.. Most of our business units experience seasonal variation as a result of the dependence of our customers on suitable weather to engage in construction projects. Generally, during the winter months, construction activity declines due to inclement weather, frozen ground and shorter daylight hours. In addition, to the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the geographic regions in which we operate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We anticipate that fluctuations of our operations results from period to period due to seasonality will continue in the future.. 16. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. The loss of any of our significant customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 40% of our net sales in fiscal 2018. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. Because we do not have long-term arrangements with many of our customers, such customers may cease purchasing our products without notice or upon short notice to us. During the economic downturn, some of our customers reduced their operations. For example, some homebuilder customers exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets. There is no assurance that our customers will increase their activity level or return it to historic levels. A slow economic recovery could continue to have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, consolidation among customers could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, a significant customer's decision to purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, or deterioration in our relationship with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The majority of our net sales are credit sales which are made primarily to customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry and geographic areas in which they operate, including recent changes in U.S. tax laws, and the failure to collect monies owed from customers could adversely affect our financial condition.. The majority of our net sales volume is facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry in the areas where they operate. Our business units offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific job where the security lies in lien rights associated with the material going into the job. The type of credit offered depends both on the financial strength of the customer and the nature of the business in which the customer is involved. End users, resellers and other non-contractor customers generally purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. The inability of our customers to pay off their credit lines in a timely manner, or at all, would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our collections efforts with respect to non-paying or slow-paying customers could negatively impact our customer relations going forward.. Because we depend on the creditworthiness of certain of our customers, if the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase. Significant contraction in our markets, coupled with tightened credit availability and financial institution underwriting standards, could adversely affect certain of our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income.. Our international operations expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks not normally faced by businesses that operate only in the United States.. International operations are exposed to different political, economic and regulatory risks that are not faced by businesses that operate solely in the United States. Some of our operations are outside the United States, with manufacturing and distribution facilities in Canada and several Latin American countries. Our international operations are subject to risks similar to those affecting our operations in the United States in addition to a number of other risks, including: difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; impositions or increases of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and affiliates; exposure to different legal standards; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; impositions or increases of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; the requirements of a wide variety of foreign laws; political and economic instability; war; and difficulties in staffing and managing operations, particularly in remote locations.. As a result of our international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to wrongfully. 17. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or obtaining an unfair advantage, and generally require companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls, including at foreign controlled subsidiaries. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC resulting in record fines and penalties, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals.. We have operations in Canada as well as existing joint ventures in Mexico and South America. Our internal policies provide for compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws for both us and for our joint venture operations. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or joint venture partners.. Furthermore, as part of the Prior Restatement, management identified certain weaknesses in the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which weaknesses included certain control deficiencies related to the ADS Mexicana control environment, as well as the ADS Mexicana revenue recognition cut-off practices. Certain of the matters related to the ADS Mexicana control environment were already the subject of investigation by third party advisors to the Audit Committee as part of the restatement of our previously issued financial statements as set forth in the Fiscal 2015 Form 10-K. Although such matters resulted in a determination of material weakness, which material weaknesses have been remediated, neither the Audit Committee's advisors in the course of their investigation nor management concluded whether the weaknesses in the ADS Mexicana control environment, the ADS Mexicana revenue recognition cut-off practices, or any other material weaknesses of the Company, would result in an ultimate determination by the SEC or any other applicable regulatory agency that the Company has not complied with the books and records and internal control provisions of the FCPA as set forth in sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees, agents or joint venture partners have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. A finding that the Company or its affiliates have violated any of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Conducting a portion of our operations through joint ventures exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, and such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. With respect to our existing joint ventures in Mexico and South America, any differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners. As a result, we may be unable to control the quality of products produced by the joint ventures or achieve consistency of product quality as compared with our other operations. In addition to net sales and market share, this may have a material negative impact on our brand and how it is perceived thereafter. Moreover, if our partners also fail to invest in the joint venture in the manner that is anticipated or otherwise fail to meet their contractual obligations, the joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and conduct their respective operations, requiring us to make additional investments or perform additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of products and/or services to the joint ventures' customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully expand into new product or geographic markets, which could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations.. We may expand into new product markets based on our existing manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities and services. Our business depends in part on our ability to identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers' needs. We may not be able. 18. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our distribution network could impact our ability to compete. Furthermore, the success of new products and new product lines will depend on market demand and there is a risk that new products and new product lines will not deliver expected results, which could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations.. Our expansion into new geographic markets may present competitive, distribution and regulatory challenges that differ from current ones. We may be less familiar with the target customers and may face different or additional risks, as well as increased or unexpected costs, compared to existing operations. Expansion into new geographic markets may also bring us into direct competition with companies with whom we have little or no past experience as competitors. To the extent we rely upon expansion into new geographic markets for growth and do not meet the new challenges posed by such expansion, our future sales growth could be negatively impacted, our operating costs could increase, and our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. We may not achieve the acquisition component of our growth strategy, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions are an important component of our growth strategy; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to grow our business through acquisitions as we have done historically or that any businesses acquired will perform in accordance with expectations or that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove to be correct. Future acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense and amortization expense and significant charges relative to integration costs. Our strategy could be impeded if we do not identify suitable acquisition candidates and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to properly evaluate acquisition targets.. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: problems implementing disclosure controls and procedures for the newly acquired business; unforeseen difficulties extending internal control over financial reporting and performing the required assessment at the newly acquired business; potential adverse short-term effects on operating results through increased costs or otherwise; diversion of management's attention and failure to recruit new, and retain existing, key personnel of the acquired business; failure to successfully implement infrastructure, logistics and systems integration; our business growth could outpace the capability of our systems; and the risks inherent in the systems of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all.. Increased fuel and energy prices, and our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of fuel to operate our in-house delivery fleet, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Energy and petroleum prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside our control. Political events in petroleum-producing regions as well as hurricanes and other weather-related events may cause the price of fuel to increase.. We consume a large amount of energy and petroleum products in our operations, including the manufacturing process and delivering a significant volume of products to our customers by our in-house fleet. While we utilize a diesel hedging program associated with our in-house fleet to mitigate against higher fuel prices, our operating profit will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the energy and fuel we require or to fully offset the anticipated impact of higher energy and fuel prices through increased prices or surcharges to our customers or through other hedging strategies. If shortages occur in the supply of energy or necessary petroleum products and we are not able to pass along the full impact of increased energy or petroleum prices to our customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our income from operations is sensitive to changes in our net sales.. A significant portion of our expenses are fixed costs, including personnel. Consequently, a decline in our net sales could have a greater percentage effect on our income from operations if we do not act to reduce personnel or take other fixed cost reduction actions. Moreover, a key element of our strategy is managing our assets, including our substantial fixed assets, more effectively, including through sales or other disposals of excess assets. Our failure to rationalize our fixed assets in the time, and within the costs, we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Internally manufacturing our products at our own facilities subjects our business to risks associated with manufacturing processes.. We internally manufacture our own products at our facilities. While we maintain insurance covering our manufacturing and production facilities and have significant flexibility to manufacture and ship our own products from various facilities, a catastrophic loss of the use of certain of our facilities due to accident, fire, explosion, labor issues, weather conditions, other natural disaster or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Unexpected failures of our equipment and machinery may result in production delays, revenue loss and significant repair costs, injuries to our employees, and customer claims. Any interruption in production capability may limit our ability to supply enough products to customers and may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and cash flows. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to offset the lost revenues or increased costs that we may experience during a disruption of our operations.. We provide product warranties that could expose us to claims, which could in turn damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We generally provide limited product warranties on our products against defects in materials and workmanship in normal use and service. Most of our pipe products have a warranty that is not limited in duration. The warranty period for other products such as our StormTech chambers, our Inserta Tee product line, our BaySaver product line and our FleXstorm inlet protection systems is generally one year. Estimating the required warranty reserves requires a high level of judgment. Management estimates warranty reserves, based in part upon historical warranty costs, as a proportion of sales by product line. Management also considers various relevant factors, including its stated warranty policies and procedures, as part of its evaluation of its liability. Because warranty issues may surface later in the product life cycle, management continues to review these estimates on a regular basis and considers adjustments to these estimates based on actual experience compared to historical estimates. Although management believes that our warranty reserves as of March 31, 2018 are adequate, actual results may vary from these estimates.. The nature of our business exposes us to construction defect and product liability claims as well as other legal proceedings, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are exposed to construction defect and product liability claims relating to our various products if our products do not meet customer expectations. Such liabilities may arise out of the quality of raw materials we purchase from third-party suppliers, over which we do not have direct control. We also operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face the risk of traffic accidents.. While we currently maintain insurance coverage to address a portion of these types of liabilities, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Further, while we intend to seek indemnification against potential liability for products liability claims from relevant parties, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to recover under any such indemnification agreements. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant time periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could be highly costly and accordingly result in a. 20. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. decline in revenues and profitability. In addition, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact customer confidence in us and our products.. From time to time, we are also involved in government inquiries and investigations, as well as consumer, employment, tort proceedings and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including potential environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take actions which would adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters.. Because our business is working capital intensive, we rely on our ability to manage our supply purchasing and customer credit policies.. Our operations are working capital intensive, and our inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable are significant components of our net asset base. We manage our inventories and accounts payable through our purchasing policies and our accounts receivable through our customer credit policies. If we fail to adequately manage our supply purchasing or customer credit policies, our working capital and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our operations are affected by various laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate, and our failure to obtain or maintain approvals by municipalities, state departments of transportation, engineers and developers may affect our results of operations.. Our operations are principally affected by various statutes, regulations and laws in the United States, Canada and Latin America. While we are not engaged in a regulated industry, we are subject to various laws applicable to businesses generally, including laws affecting land usage, zoning, the environment, health and safety, transportation, labor and employment practices (including pensions), competition, immigration and other matters. Additionally, approvals by municipalities, the U.S. and state departments of transportation, engineers and developers may affect the products our customers are allowed to use, and, consequently, failure to obtain or maintain such approvals may affect the saleability of our products. Building codes may also affect the products our customers are allowed to use, and, consequently, changes in building codes may also affect the saleability of our products. Changes in applicable regulations governing the sale of some of our products could increase our costs of doing business. In addition, changes to applicable tax laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. We cannot provide assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with regulatory requirements.. In addition, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. We deliver products to many of our customers through our own fleet of vehicles. The U.S. DOT regulates our operations in domestic interstate commerce. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the U.S. DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also remain subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service could increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, would reduce our gross profit and net income (loss) and increase our selling, general and administrative expenses.. We cannot predict whether future developments in law and regulations concerning our business units will affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in a negative manner. Similarly, we cannot assess. 21. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. whether our business units will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information technology systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs, decreases in revenues, or both. The implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and our technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.. Because we use our information technology (\"IT\") systems to, among other things, manage inventories and accounts receivable, make purchasing decisions and monitor our results of operations, the proper functioning of our IT systems is important to the successful operation of our business. Although our IT systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, IT systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical IT systems fail, or are otherwise unavailable, our ability to process orders, track credit risk, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses and otherwise manage our business units would be adversely affected.. Management uses IT systems to support decision making and to monitor business performance. We may fail to generate accurate financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management. Failure to adopt systematic procedures to maintain quality IT general controls could disrupt our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controls such as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operate our business could be limited.. Third-party service providers are responsible for managing a significant portion of our IT systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily. Additionally, there is no guarantee that we will continue to have access to these third-party IT systems after our current license agreements expire, and, if we do not obtain licenses to use effective replacement IT systems, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. We have made, and will continue to make, significant technology investments in each of our business units and in our administrative functions. Our technology initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers and to provide our customers a better experience, while improving the quality of our internal control environment. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits or the technology might fail altogether.. We may experience a failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional significant resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. If we become subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. We may see increased costs arising from health care reform.. We provide workers' compensation, automobile and product/general liability coverage through a high deductible insurance program. In addition, we provide medical coverage to some of our employees through a self-. 22. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. insured preferred provider organization. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if the number and severity of insurance claims increases.. In March 2010, the United States government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates which began in 2010 and extend through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. Therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. Possible adverse effects of the health care reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends upon our ability to control labor costs and to attract, train and retain highly-qualified employees and key personnel.. To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly-qualified employees while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs. We compete with other businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly-qualified employees in the future, including, in particular, those employed by companies we acquire. None of our domestic employees are currently covered by collective bargaining or other similar labor agreements. However, if a number of our employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, the effect on us may be negative. Inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts under any collective bargaining arrangements could cause strikes or other work stoppages, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs. If any such strikes or other work stoppages occur, or if employees become represented by a union, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher labor costs. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of products and services could also adversely affect our business from time to time.. In addition, our business results of operations depend largely upon our chief executive officer and senior management team as well as our plant managers and sales personnel, including those of companies recently acquired, and their experience, knowledge of local market dynamics and specifications and long-standing customer relationships. We customarily sign executive responsibility agreements with certain key personnel who are granted restricted stock or stock options under our employee incentive compensation programs, which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, in certain jurisdictions, non-competition provisions may not be enforceable or may not be enforceable to their full extent. Our inability to retain or hire qualified plant managers or sales personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels would restrict our ability to grow our business, limit our ability to continue to successfully operate our business and result in lower operating results and profitability.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to protect and preserve proprietary aspects of our intellectual property, which we attempt to do, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products, processes and services. While we generally apply for patents in those countries where we primarily intend to make, have made, use, or sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will. 23. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. We also cannot assure that the patents issuing as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our United States patents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require applicable employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure that competitors will not infringe our trademarks or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We also license third parties to use certain of our trademarks. In an effort to preserve our trademark rights, we enter into license agreements with these third parties which govern the use of our trademarks and which require our licensees to abide by quality control standards with respect to the goods and services that they provide under our trademarks. Although we make efforts to police the use of our trademarks by our licensees, we cannot assure that these efforts will be sufficient to ensure that our licensees abide by the terms of their licenses. In the event that our licensees fail to do so, our trademark rights could be diluted.. Although we rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship (including software) created by us, we generally do not register the copyrights in any of our copyrightable works. Copyrights of United States origin must be registered before the copyright owner may bring an infringement suit in the United States. Furthermore, if a copyright of United States origin is not registered within three months of publication of the underlying work, the copyright owner is precluded from seeking statutory damages or attorneys' fees in any United States enforcement action and is limited to seeking actual damages and lost profits. Accordingly, if one of our unregistered copyrights of United States origin is infringed by a third party, we will need to register the copyright before we can file an infringement suit in the United States, and our remedies in any such infringement suit may be limited.. The misuse of our intellectual property rights by others could adversely impact our ability to compete, cause our net sales to decrease or otherwise harm our business. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail.. Also, we cannot be certain that the products that we sell do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Further, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers, whom we generally indemnify in connection with their use of the products that we manufacture. These claims could divert management's attention and resources and may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of ourselves or our customers, regardless of the merits of the claims. Should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or sell different products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs, prevent us from selling our products or negatively impact our ability to compete.. 24. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. We could incur significant costs in complying with environmental, health and safety laws or permits or as a result of satisfying any liability or obligation imposed under such laws or permits.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes, protect the health and safety of our employees and the end users of our products, regulate the materials used in and the recycling of products and impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances. Violations of these laws and regulations, failure to obtain or maintain required environmental permits or non-compliance with any conditions contained in any environmental permit can result in substantial fines or penalties, injunctive relief, requirements to install pollution or other controls or equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. We could be held liable for the costs to address contamination of any real property we have ever owned, leased, operated or used, including as a disposal site. We could also incur fines, penalties, sanctions or be subject to third-party claims for property damage, personal injury or nuisance or otherwise as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws in connection with releases of hazardous or other materials.. In addition, changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, regulations or enforcement policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of other environmental liabilities or obligations in the future, including additional investigation or other obligations with respect to any potential health hazards of our products or business activities or the imposition of new permit requirements, may lead to additional compliance or other costs that could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A change in our product mix could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our results may be affected by a change in our product mix on which our gross margin depends. Changes in our product mix may result from marketing activities to existing customers and needs communicated to us from existing and prospective customers. Our outlook, budgeting and strategic planning assume a certain product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted.. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change.. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions. For example, in the past several years, the U.S. Congress has considered various bills that would regulate GHG emissions. While these bills have not yet received sufficient Congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the Clean Air Act, may regulate GHG emissions, especially diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. These costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our internal fleet of trucks and other vehicles prematurely. In addition, new laws or future regulation could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) and our business (through the impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demands for the products we sell). Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. Notwithstanding our dedication to being a responsible corporate citizen, it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us.. Anti-terrorism measures and other disruptions to the raw material supply network could impact our operations.. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of products to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. In the aftermath of terrorist attacks in the United States, federal, state and local authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures that affect the raw material supply network in the United States and abroad. If security measures disrupt or impede the receipt of sufficient raw materials, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so.. 25. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health, reduce our profitability, limit our ability to obtain financing in the future and pursue certain business opportunities and reduce the value of your investment.. As of March 31, 2018, we had an aggregate principal amount of $300.8 million of outstanding debt. In fiscal year 2018, we incurred $11.2 million of interest expense, net of the impact of interest rate swaps, related to this debt.. The amount of our debt or such other obligations could have important consequences for holders of our common stock, including, but not limited to: a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and other purposes may be impaired in the future; we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest; we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase; our ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing may be impaired in the future; it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and our ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from making capital investments that are necessary or important to our operations in general, growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our business units.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance our debt. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. We could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Subject to certain exceptions, our Secured Bank Loans and our Senior Notes, which we have defined in \"Note 12. Debt\" to our consolidated financial statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,\" restrict our ability to dispose of assets and how we use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to consummate those dispositions, or if we do, what the timing of the dispositions will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet our debt service obligations, when due.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, including obligations under lease arrangements that are currently recorded as operating leases. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility provides an aggregate commitment of up to $550.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we had an additional $365.5 million of availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our subsidiary ADS Mexicana had $12.0 million in availability outstanding under a separate revolving credit facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See \"Note 12. Debt\" to our consolidated financial statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". 26. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business and adversely affect the holders of our common stock.. The covenants contained in our Secured Bank Loans and our Senior Notes, which we refer to collectively as our Credit Facilities, are consistent. These covenants, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to: dispose of assets; incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); prepay or amend our various debt instruments; pay dividends and make certain payments; redeem stock or make other distributions; create liens on assets; make certain investments; engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or sales of all, or substantially all, of our assets; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the Credit Facilities may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the Credit Facilities that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, secured parties having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Credit Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the secured obligations. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. Although we believe that our current cash position and the additional committed funding available under our Credit Facilities is sufficient for our current operations, any reductions in our available borrowing capacity, or our inability to renew or replace our debt facilities, when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The economic conditions, credit market conditions, and economic climate affecting our industry, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market conditions and the macroeconomic conditions that affect our industry could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all.. If financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. We may not be able to satisfy our outstanding obligations upon a change of control.. Under the Secured Bank Loans, a change of control (as defined therein) constitutes an event of default that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings under the agreement and terminate their commitments to lend. Additionally, under the Senior Notes, a change of control (as defined therein) constitutes an event of default that permits the noteholders to declare all of their notes to be immediately due and payable. In order to avoid events of default under each of our Credit Facilities, we may therefore have to avoid certain change of control transactions that would otherwise be beneficial to us.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our ability to make future dividend payments, if any, may be restricted.. We have a history of paying dividends to our stockholders when sufficient cash is available, and we currently intend to pay dividends in the future. Any determination to pay dividends on our capital stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws and the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (including those relating to the payment of dividends on our convertible preferred stock), and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. In. 27. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. addition, the terms of our Credit Facilities contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Also, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. We cannot assure our stockholders that an active market for shares of our common stock can be sustained and the market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline in the future.. We cannot assure that an active public market for our common stock will be sustained. In the absence of a public trading market, you may not be able to liquidate your investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: industry or general market conditions; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; changes in our customers' preferences; new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts; action by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders, including future sales; speculation in the press or investment community; investor perception of us and our industry; changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships; developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including increases or decreases in litigation expenses associated with intellectual property lawsuits we may initiate, or in which we may be named as defendants; failure to complete significant sales; any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and additions or departures of key personnel.. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against such company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders, including our Employee Stock Ownership Plan, could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Based on shares outstanding as of March 31, 2018, we have 56.9 million outstanding shares of common stock, including 0.2 million outstanding shares of our restricted stock, a significant portion of which are freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (\"Securities Act\") unless held by \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if their offer and sale is registered under the Securities Act or if the offer and sale of those securities qualify for an exemption from registration, including exemptions provided by Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We have filed one or more registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options granted under our plans are also freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of March 31, 2018, there were stock options outstanding to purchase a total of approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock. In addition, approximately 3.3 million shares of common stock are available for grant under our 2017 Omnibus Plan.. Certain of our significant stockholders may distribute shares that they hold to their investors who themselves may then sell into the public market. Such sales may not be subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 of the Securities Act (\"Rule 144\"). As resale restrictions end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them.. 28. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. All of the shares of our convertible preferred stock held by our Employee Stock Ownership Plan (\"ESOP\") may be converted into our common stock at any time by action of the ESOP trustee, and will be automatically converted into our common stock upon distributions of such shares allocated to the ESOP accounts of ESOP participants upon a distribution event such as retirement or other termination of employment. Such distributed common stock will not be subject to any lock-up agreement and will be eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As of March 31, 2018, there were approximately 23.3 million shares of convertible preferred stock held by our ESOP, which in aggregate could be converted into approximately 17.9 million shares of our common stock. All of these shares will be eligible for future sale, either by the ESOP trustee or by ESOP participants, subject to the limitations of Rule 144.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.. As of May 21, 2018, our directors, officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates collectively own approximately 49.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Additionally, our ESOP holds convertible preferred stock that converts into a substantial number of shares of our common stock and, prior to conversion, is entitled to vote on a one-for-one basis on any matter requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, voting together with our common stock as a single class unless otherwise required by law. Thus, the collective voting power of our directors, officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates as of May 21, 2018 is approximately 64.0%, inclusive of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock held by the ESOP. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to control our management and affairs and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.. The trustee of our ESOP has certain limited powers to vote a large block of shares on matters presented to stockholders for approval.. In general, the ESOP trustee votes the shares of convertible preferred stock held by the ESOP as directed by the ESOP's participants. Consequently, the ESOP trustee has the ability to vote a significant block of shares on certain matters presented to stockholders for approval. Each participant in the ESOP may direct the ESOP trustee on how to vote the shares of convertible preferred stock allocated to the participant's ESOP accounts; and the ESOP trustee must vote any unallocated stock and allocated stock for which no participant instructions were received in the same proportion as the allocated stock for which participants' voting instructions have been received is voted.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; maintain a classified board of directors, as a result of which our board will continue to be divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board of directors at an annual meeting; limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; do not give the holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights with respect to the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock can elect all directors standing for election; establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of. 29. Table of Contents. Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.. directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; require a super-majority stockholders vote of 75% to approve any reorganization, recapitalization, share exchange, share reclassification, consolidation, merger, conversion or sale of all or substantially all assets to which we are a party that is not approved by the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the members of our board of directors; and require the approval of holders of at least 75% of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock to amend the bylaws and certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation.. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware General Corporation Law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by our directors, officers, employees or agents; any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition."
