[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks relating to our business. The following risks relate to our business as of the date this Report is filed with the SEC, or any alternative date specified. This list of risks is not intended to be exhaustive, but reflects what we believe are the material risks inherent in our business and the ownership of our securities as of the specified dates. A statement to the effect that the occurrence of a specified event may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, profitability, financial condition, or the like, is intended to reflect the fact that such an event would be likely to have a negative impact on your investment in the Company, but should not imply the likelihood of the occurrence of such specified event. The order in which the following risk factors are presented is not intended as an indication of the relative seriousness of any given risk.. Demand for our products and services depends significantly on environmental laws and regulations. Uncertainty as to the future of such laws and regulations, as well as changes to such laws and regulations, or granting of extensions of compliance deadlines has had, and will likely continue to have a material effect on our business.. A significant market driver for our existing products and services, and those planned in the future, are present and expected environmental laws and regulations, particularly those addressing the reduction of mercury and other emissions from coal-fired electric generating units. If such laws and regulations are delayed, or are not enacted or are repealed or amended to be less strict, or include prolonged phase-in periods, or are not enforced, our business would be adversely affected by declining demand for such products and services. For example:. • The implementation of environmental regulations regarding certain pollution control and permitting requirements has been delayed from time to time due to various lawsuits. The uncertainty created by litigation and reconsiderations of rule-making by the EPA has negatively impacted our business, results of operations and financial condition and will likely continue to do so.. • To the extent federal, state, and local legislation mandating that electric power generating companies serving a state or region purchase a minimum amount of power from renewable energy sources such as wind, hydroelectric, solar and geothermal, and such amount lessens demand for electricity from coal-fired plants, the demand for our products and services would likely decrease.. Federal, state, and international laws or regulations addressing emissions from coal-fired electric generating units, climate change or other actions to limit emissions, including public opposition to new coal-fired electric generating units, has caused and could continue to cause electricity generators to transition from coal to other fuel and power sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, wind, hydroelectric and solar. The potential financial impact on us of future laws or regulations or public pressure will depend upon the degree to which electricity generators diminish their reliance on coal as a fuel source. That, in turn, will depend on a number of factors, including the specific requirements imposed by any such laws or regulations, the periods over which those laws or regulations are or will be phased in, the amount of public opposition, and the state and cost of commercial development of related technologies and processes. In addition, Public Utility Commissions (\"PUCs\") may not allow utilities to charge consumers for, and pass on the cost of, emission control technologies without federal or state mandate. We cannot reasonably predict the impact that any such future laws or regulations or public opposition may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Reduction of coal consumption by U.S. electric power generators could result in less demand for our products and services. If utilities significantly reduce the number of coal-fired electric generating units or the amount of coal burned, without a corresponding increase in the services required at the remaining units, this could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. electric power generation is affected by, among other things, (1) the location, availability, quality and price of alternative energy sources for power generation, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind, biomass and solar power; and (2) technological developments, including those related to competing alternative energy sources.. Natural gas-fueled generation has been displacing and may continue to displace coal-fueled generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators. We expect that many of the new power plants needed to meet increasing demand for electricity generation will be fueled by natural gas because the price of natural gas has remained at relatively low levels after a period of sharp decline, and use of natural gas is perceived as having a lower environmental impact than burning coal. Natural gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct, and permits to construct these plants are easier to obtain, and ongoing costs of natural. 14. gas-fired plants associated with meeting environmental compliance are lower. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make those sources more competitive with coal. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators, whether as a result of new power plants utilizing alternative energy sources or as a result of technological advances, could reduce the demand for our current products and services, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations.. Additionally, long-term changes in environmental regulation that threaten or preclude the use of coal or other fossil fuels as a primary fuel source for electricity production, and result in the reduction or closure of a significant number of coal-fired electric generating units, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The ability of Tinuum Group to generate revenues from the sale or lease of RC facilities to tax equity investors is not assured, and the inability to sell, lease or operate RC facilities to produce and sell RC and generate Section 45 production tax credits could adversely affect our future growth and profitability.. Except for RC facilities that Tinuum Group may retain and operate permanently for its own benefit, Tinuum Group is attempting to sell or lease the remaining RC facilities to third-party investors. The inability of Tinuum Group to successfully lease or sell additional RC facilities to third-party tax equity investors who may receive the benefit of the Section 45 tax credits that are expected to be generated from those RC facilities, as well as RC facilities that may be returned to Tinuum Group over time, would likely have an adverse effect on our future growth and profitability.. Furthermore, if, in the future, electric power generators decide to limit coal-fired generation for economic reasons and/or do not  burn and use RC and instead switch to another power or fuel source, Tinuum Group would likely be unable to fully produce and sell the RC and the associated Section 45 production tax credits potentially available from RC facilities over the anticipated term of the Section 45 tax credit program.. The ability to generate Section 45 tax credits from existing operating RC facilities ends in 2021, which could eliminate the desire for investors to further lease RC facilities beyond this date, which would effectively eliminate Tinuum Group's operations and significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations beyond 2021.. A substantial amount of our earnings and cash flows in 2017 are comprised of equity method and royalty earnings generated from Tinuum Group's invested RC facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our RC and EC segments generated segment operating income of $59.9 million and $0.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, Tinuum Group has 17 invested facilities and zero retained facilities. Of the 17 invested facilities, one is currently generating Section 45 tax credits that will no longer generate Section 45 tax credits beyond 2019 and the remaining 16 are generating Section 45 tax credits that will no longer generate Section 45 tax credits beyond 2021.  As a result, we believe that substantially all of the invested RC facilities will be returned to Tinuum Group commensurate with the expiration of the Section 45 tax credit program.  If Tinuum Group elects to continue operating these RC facilities, their earnings will be significantly reduced and accordingly, our pro rata share will also be substantially reduced.. Additionally, our EC segment is currently in its infancy and must grow substantially, either organically or acquisitively, in order to replace earnings from Tinuum Group that will substantially end during the 2020 to 2022-time frame. There can be no assurance that will be able to increase our EC segment earnings during this time frame to cover our current operating expenses or to provide a return to shareholders that is comparable to the return currently provided by our RC segment.  If we are not able to cover operating expenses, we could be forced to raise additional capital, significantly reduce our operating expenses or take other alternative actions.. The recent change in income tax rates may make Section 45 production tax credits less attractive, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") became law.  The Tax Act, among other things, lowered the federal income tax rate on corporations from 35% to 21%, effective for the year beginning January 1, 2018.  This change to previous higher tax rates could negatively impact tax capacity of current or potential tax equity investors making Section 45 production tax credits less attractive. At this point, we are not fully certain how the tax credit investor market's reaction to the Tax Act's rate changes and other changes could impact our businesses that produce and sell RC and generate Section 45 tax credits, which could have an adverse effect on our reported or future results of operations or financial condition.. 15. Market uncertainty created by the lack of guidance and rulings issued by courts and the IRS related to Section 45 tax credits could inhibit Tinuum Group's ability to lease or sell additional RC facilities or require a restructuring of, or result in the termination of, existing arrangements.. While the Tax Act did not change the provisions of Section 45, the availability of Section 45 tax credits related to the production and sale of RC to taxpayers investing in RC facilities depends upon a number of factors, including the risk assumed by the taxpayer in the RC facility investment transaction. The law addressing when a taxpayer may and may not be considered the producer and seller of RC and avail itself of Section 45 production tax credits is not fully developed and is subject to rulings by courts, interpretations by the IRS and other official pronouncements on tax credit regulations. If rulings, guidance or other pronouncements of courts or the IRS are not definitive or interpreted as allowing the IRS to restrict availability, increase the difficulty, or prohibit or limit the ability of taxpayers to be considered to be the producer and seller of RC and take advantage of Section 45 production tax credits, several aspects of our current and future RC business could be adversely affected. For example, current investors in RC facilities may decide to terminate their existing agreements, or potential investors may reduce the price they are willing to pay for an RC facility or change the structure of the investment to account for perceived risks associated with being considered the producer and seller of RC and the availability of the associated Section 45 production tax credits.. Presently, a group of related tax equity investors accounts for a substantial portion of our earnings from Tinuum Group and any lease renegotiation or termination by these investors or any failure to continue to produce and sell RC at the related investors' RC facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business.. As of December 31, 2017, 11 of Tinuum Group's 28 RC facilities are leased to various affiliated entities. Significant components of our total cash flows come from Tinuum Group's distributions relating to payments received under these leases. These leases have an initial fixed period and then automatically renew, unless terminated at the option of the lessee, for successive one-year terms through 2019 or 2021. If these affiliated entities renegotiated or terminated their leases, or if the utilities where the RC facilities are installed materially reduce their use of RC, these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain of these affiliated entities have amended their leases from time to time, with some of the amended leases including less favorable terms to Tinuum Group.. Our RC businesses are joint ventures and managed under operating agreements where we do not have sole control of the decision making process, and we cannot mandate decisions or ensure outcomes.. We oversee our joint ventures under the terms of their respective operating agreements by participating in the following activities: (1) representation on the respective governing boards of directors, (2) regular oversight of financial and operational performance and controls and establishing audit and reporting requirements, (3) hiring of management personnel, (4) technical support of RC facilities, and (5) other regular and routine involvement with our joint venture partners. Notwithstanding this regular participation and oversight, our joint venture partners also participate in the management of these businesses and they may have business or economic interests that divert their attention from the joint venture, or they may prefer to operate the business, make decisions or invest resources in a manner that is contrary to our preferences. Since material business decisions must be made jointly with our joint venture partners, we cannot mandate decisions or ensure outcomes.. The market for chemicals and other products that provide mercury emissions reduction is highly competitive and some of our competitors are significantly larger and more established than we are, which could adversely impede our growth opportunities and financial results.. We compete against certain significantly larger and/or more established companies in the market for chemicals and other products that provide mercury emissions reduction, including Norit America, Inc., a division of Cabot Corporation, Calgon Carbon, ADA Carbon Solutions and Nalco.. We are an early-stage company in the consumables mercury emissions reduction business and our chemicals products have been introduced later to the market than many of our competitors' products. If we are not able to displace current providers of mercury emissions reduction products at coal-fired electric generating units, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our future growth opportunities and business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Our dependence on certain discrete chemicals that are both limited in supply and subject to significant price fluctuations used in the manufacturing of our chemical products that we sell to our customers may cause delays in products delivered to customers, delayed revenues, loss of customers and increased costs to us.. The manufacturing of our chemical products is dependent upon certain discrete chemicals that are prone to significant price fluctuations and supply constraints. Further, there are a limited number of suppliers that provide ingredients needed to manufacture our proprietary M-Prove and RESPond chemicals that are used at a customer's coal-fired electric generating unit. This makes us vulnerable to potential price increases from our suppliers that could negatively impact our gross margins if we are unable to increase the selling price to our customers. If suppliers are unable to procure discrete chemicals needed to manufacture our chemical products or elect not to continue to do business with us, we may be delayed in fulfilling customer orders and might not be able to fill orders at all. Delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders or the loss of any of our suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our EC business, results of operations and financial condition.. The quality and effectiveness of our technologies, products and services may not meet our customers' expectations.. We utilize and rely on a limited number of suppliers to manufacture our proprietary M-Prove and RESPond chemicals. If these products are not manufactured to the standards and specifications that we have promised to our customers, we may suffer damage to our reputation and our customers may seek alternative products from competitors to fulfill their emissions reductions needs. In addition, if we have flaws in our service deliverables of delivery, installation, and performance testing and in our evaluation of our technologies, we could experience the loss of customers and resultant lower revenues. Historically, we have had minimal returns of chemicals sold to our customers due to non-compliance with agreed-upon specifications. While our suppliers are responsible and liable for any costs incurred to re-supply chemical products to our customers, including liability for liquidated damages, repair, replacement or service costs and for potential damage to our reputation, we have provided warranties and performance guarantees for certain ACI and DSI systems we have sold. Under those contractual arrangements, we are responsible for repair or replacement costs and certain operating costs within the limits provided by the contracts, if the agreed specifications are not met. Our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement acceptable chemicals and emissions reductions solutions may not be sufficient to avoid failures and meet performance criteria that may result in dissatisfied or lost customers, damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Failure to protect our intellectual property or infringement of our intellectual property by a third party could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because they provide only limited protection or such protection may be prohibitively expensive to enforce. We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, and many of our customers and vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Notwithstanding these measures, a third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization. We cannot provide assurance that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology and intellectual property, which could negatively impact our business and financial condition. In addition, such actions by third parties could divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business.. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from third parties that are costly to defend and that may limit our ability to use the disputed technologies.. If our technologies are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be prevented from continuing sales of existing products or services and from pursuing research, development or commercialization of new or complimentary products or services. Further, we may be required to obtain licenses to third-party intellectual property, or be forced to develop or obtain alternative technologies. Our failure to obtain a license to a technology that we may require, or the need to develop or obtain alternative technologies, could significantly and negatively affect our business.. 17. Agreements to indemnify third-party licensees of our technologies against intellectual property infringement claims concerning our licensed technology and our products could be significant to us.. We have agreed to indemnify licensees of our technologies (including Tinuum Group) and purchasers of our products and we may enter into additional agreements with others under which we agree to indemnify and hold them harmless from losses they may incur as a result of the infringement of third-party rights caused by the use of our technologies and products. Infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming to defend, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, even if we are successful in defending ourselves (and the indemnified parties) against them.. Our future success depends in part on our ongoing identification and development of intellectual property and our ability to invest in and deploy new products, services and technologies into the marketplace efficiently and cost effectively.. The process of identifying customer needs and developing and enhancing products, services and solutions for our business segments is complex, costly and uncertain. Any failure by us to identify and anticipate changing needs, emerging trends and new regulations could significantly harm our future market share and results of operations. Historically, our approach to technology development, implementation and commercialization of products has focused on quickly taking technology to full-scale testing and enhancing it under actual power plant operating conditions. We continue to review and adjust methods to deploy products, services and technologies to our customers. Our results are subject to risks related to our investments in new technologies, products and services, but if we are unable to develop and scale up new technologies, products or services to meet the needs of our customers, our business and financial results would be adversely affected.. The effects of Tinuum Group providing payment under performance guarantees of its RC facilities are largely unknown and could adversely affect our financial condition.. Tinuum Group indemnifies certain utilities and lessees of RC facilities for particular risks associated with the operations of those facilities. We have provided limited, joint and several guarantees of Tinuum Group's obligations under those leases. Any substantial payments made under such guarantees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Material adjustments pursuant to DOE audits of our past performance could have a detrimental impact on our business.. Certain of our completed and current contracts awarded by the DOE and related industry participants remain subject to government audits. Our historical experience with these audits has not resulted in significant adverse adjustments to reimbursement amounts previously received; however audits for the years 2013 and later have not been finalized. If the results of future audits require us to repay material amounts, our results of operations and business would likely suffer material adverse impacts.. We may make future acquisitions or form partnerships and joint ventures that may involve numerous risks that could impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our strategy may include expanding our scope of products and services organically or through selective acquisitions, investments or creating partnerships and joint ventures. We have acquired, and may selectively acquire, other businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies that are complementary to our business. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms, or we may be unable to integrate existing or future acquisitions effectively and efficiently and may need to divest those acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including among others:. • integration difficulties, including challenges and costs associated with implementing systems and processes to comply with requirements of being part of a publicly-traded company;. • diverting management's attention from normal daily operations of the business;. • entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;. • unanticipated costs and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities or operating challenges;. 18. • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies;. • our ability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; and. • increasing demands on our operational and IT systems.. The success of acquisitions of businesses, new technologies and products, or arrangements with third parties is not always predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our objectives as anticipated. We may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of equity ownership. Our loan agreements contain certain covenants that limit, or that may have the effect of limiting, among other things, acquisitions, capital expenditures, the sale of assets and the incurrence of additional indebtedness.. An \"ownership change\" could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income.. We have certain general business credit tax credits (\"Tax Attributes\"). As of December 31, 2017, we had $100.4 million of Tax Attributes, equaling 88% of our total gross deferred tax assets. Our ability to use these Tax Attributes to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an \"ownership change\" as discussed below.. On May 5, 2017, the Board of Directors (\"Board\") approved the Tax Asset Protection Plan (the \"Protection Plan\") and declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (each, a \"Right\") for each outstanding share of our common stock. The Protection Plan was adopted in an effort to protect stockholder value by attempting to diminish the risk that our ability to use the Tax Attributes to reduce potential future federal income tax obligations may become substantially limited. Under the IRC and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department, we may carry forward or otherwise utilize the Tax Attributes in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. To the extent that the Tax Attributes do not otherwise become limited, we believe that we will have available a significant amount of Tax Attributes in future years, and therefore the Tax Attributes could be a substantial asset to us. However, if we experience an \"ownership change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use the Tax Attributes may be substantially limited, and the timing of the usage of the Tax Attributes could be substantially delayed, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.. In general, an \"ownership change\" for tax purposes occurs if the percentage of stock owned by an entity's 5% stockholders (as defined for tax purposes) increases by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  An entity that experiences an ownership change generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change tax loss and credit carryforwards equal to the equity value of the entity immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize the Tax Attributes arising from an ownership change under Section 382 of the IRC would depend on the value of our equity at the time of any ownership change.  If we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" it is possible that a significant portion of our tax loss and credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income.. The Protection Plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the Board. Stockholders who beneficially owned 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock upon execution of the Plan will not trigger the Protection Plan so long as they do not acquire beneficial ownership of additional shares of Common Stock. The Board may, in its sole discretion, also exempt any person from triggering the Protection Plan.. Changes in taxation rules or financial accounting standards could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Changes in taxation rules and accounting pronouncements (and changes in interpretations of accounting pronouncements) have occurred and may occur in the future.. The Tax Act, among other things, reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, beginning January 1, 2018. As a result, as of December 31, 2017, we reduced our net deferred tax assets for the reduction in the federal rate in the. 19. amount of $5.8 million, which increased our income tax expense by this amount for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our assessment and accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act affecting our consolidated financial statements is generally complete, subject to continued evaluation under the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (\"SAB 118\"), which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act. We do not anticipate any other impacts to have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; however, our evaluation is ongoing and our conclusions are preliminary.. Information technology vulnerabilities and cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We rely upon information technology (\"IT\") to manage and conduct business, both internally and externally, with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. Internet transactions involve the transmission and storage of data including, in certain instances, customer and supplier business information. Therefore, maintaining the security of computers and other electronic devices, computer networks and data storage resources is a critical issue for us and our customers and suppliers because security breaches could result in reduced or lost ability to carry on our business and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We have limited personnel and other resources to address information technology reliability and security of our computer networks and to respond to known security incidents to minimize potential adverse impact. Experienced hackers, cybercriminals and perpetrators of threats may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that attack our information and networks or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our information and networks. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A breach of our IT systems and security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations and expose us to customer, supplier and other third-party liabilities.. Risks relating to our common stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility.. The market price of our common stock has experience substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so. The market price of our common stock may continue to be affected by numerous factors, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in laws or regulations and court rulings and trends in our industry;. • Tinuum Group's ability to lease or sell RC facilities;. • announcements of sales awards;. • changes in supply and demand of components and materials;. • adoption of new tax regulations or accounting standards affecting our industry;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • perceptions of the value of corporate transactions;. • our ability to continue to be able to pay cash dividends. • the number of shares of common stock repurchased under stock repurchase programs. • the degree of trading liquidity in our common stock and general market conditions.. 20. From January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $3.27 to $12.08 per share. In June 2017, we commenced a quarterly cash dividend program and paid out cash dividends in July, September and December 2017. In May 2017, we executed a modified Dutch Auction tender offer and repurchased 1,370,891 shares of our common stock. In December 2017, the Board authorized a stock repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $10.0 million of our outstanding common stock from time to time. As of December 31, 2017, we had purchased 342,875 shares of our common stock under this stock repurchase program.. Stock price volatility over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase shares of our common stock to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. We believe our stock price should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Board, and under our current stock repurchase program, we are not obligated to acquire any specific number of shares. If we fail to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, stock repurchases or other market expectations, our stock price may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain additional capital, investor confidence and employee retention, and could reduce the liquidity of our common stock.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.. The Board first approved a $0.25 per share of common stock quarterly dividend in June 2017. During 2017, we declared three quarterly dividends in the aggregate amount of $15.8 million. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; changes to our business model; and our increased interest and principal payments required by our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness that we may incur in the future. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions that:. • Limit the business at special meetings to the purpose stated in the notice of the meeting;. • Authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which is preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede a takeover attempt and that the Board can create and issue without prior stockholder approval;. • Establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and. • Require the affirmative vote of the \"disinterested\" holders of a majority of our common stock to approve certain business combinations involving an \"interested stockholder\" or its affiliates, unless either minimum price criteria or procedural requirements are met, or the transaction is approved by a majority of our \"continuing directors\" (known as \"fair price provisions\").. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock, or could limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest.. 21. We may require additional funding for our growth plans, and such funding may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock, resulting in a dilution of your investment.. We estimate our funding requirements in order to implement our growth plans. If the funding requirements required to implement growth plans should exceed these estimates significantly or if we come across opportunities to grow through expansion plans which cannot be predicted at this time, and our funds generated from our operations prove insufficient for such purposes, we may need to raise additional funds to meet these funding requirements.. These additional funds may be raised by issuing equity or debt securities or by borrowing from banks or other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to obtain additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we will not be able to implement such plans fully. Such financing even if obtained, may be accompanied by conditions that limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek lenders' consent for payment of dividends, or restrict our freedom to operate our business by requiring lender's consent for certain corporate actions. Further, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of new shares of our common stock, any shareholders who are unable or unwilling to participate in such an additional round of fund raising may suffer dilution of their investment."
