[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Any statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact or that refer to estimated or anticipated future events are forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on management's beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time these statements are made. Such forward-looking statements reflect our current perspective of our business, future. 22. Table of Contents. performance, existing trends and information as of the date of this filing. These include, but are not limited to, our beliefs about future revenue and expense levels and growth rates, prospects related to our strategic initiatives and business strategies, including the integration of, and synergies associated with, strategic acquisitions, express or implied assumptions about government regulatory action or inaction, anticipated product approvals and launches, business initiatives and product development activities, assessments related to clinical trial results, product performance and competitive environment, and anticipated financial performance. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"expect,\" \"believe,\" \"anticipate,\" \"plan,\" \"intend,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"should,\" \"estimate,\" \"continue,\" or \"pursue,\" or the negative or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We caution the reader that these statements are based on certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, certain important factors may affect our actual operating results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. We believe the risks and uncertainties discussed under the section entitled \"Risks Related to Our Business,\" and other risks and uncertainties detailed herein and from time to time in our SEC filings, may cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement.. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. Risks Related to Our Business. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risks Associated With Investing In the Business of Actavis. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance from period to period:. <U+0095>    development of new competitive products or generics by others;. <U+0095>    the timing and receipt of approvals by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, including foreign regulatory authorities;. <U+0095>    the failure to obtain, delay in obtaining or restrictions or limitations on approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities;. <U+0095>    difficulties or delays in resolving FDA-observed deficiencies at our manufacturing facilities, which could delay our ability to obtain approvals of pending FDA product applications or curtail availability to continue production of existing products;. <U+0095>    delays or failures in clinical trials that affect our ability to achieve FDA approvals or approvals from other foreign regulatory authorities;. <U+0095>    serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our products or product candidates;. <U+0095>    changes in the amount we spend to develop, acquire or license new products, technologies or businesses;. <U+0095>    changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;. <U+0095>    delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;. 23. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe our products;. <U+0095>    changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans and other health insurers, including changes that affect newly developed or newly acquired products;. <U+0095>    changes in laws and regulations concerning coverage and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, including changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and similar programs;. <U+0095>    increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products;. <U+0095>    realization of assets and settlement of liabilities at amounts equal to estimated fair value as of the acquisition date;. <U+0095>    manufacturing and supply interruptions, including failure to comply with manufacturing specifications;. <U+0095>    the effect of economic changes in hurricane, monsoon, earthquake and other natural disaster-affected areas;. <U+0095>    the impact of third party patents and other intellectual property rights which we may be found to infringe, or may be required to license, and the potential damages or other costs we may be required to pay as a result of a finding that we infringe such intellectual property rights or a decision that we are required to obtain a license to such intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>    changes in antitrust laws and regulations concerning settlement of patent and other intellectual property disputes, and potential damages or other costs we may be required to pay as a result of such changes;. <U+0095>    the mix of products that we sell during any time period;. <U+0095>    lower than expected demand for our products;. <U+0095>    our responses to price competition;. <U+0095>    our ability to successfully integrate and commercialize the products, technologies and businesses we acquire or license, as applicable;. <U+0095>    expenditures as a result of legal actions;. <U+0095>    market acceptance of our products;. <U+0095>    the impairment and write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets;. <U+0095>    disposition of our primary products, technologies and other rights;. <U+0095>    termination or expiration of, or the outcome of disputes relating to, trademarks, patents, license agreements and other rights;. <U+0095>    changes in insurance rates for existing products and the cost and availability of insurance for new and existing products;. <U+0095>    general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments that affect customer demand;. <U+0095>    our level of R&D activities;. <U+0095>    impairment or write-down of investments or long-lived assets;. <U+0095>    costs and outcomes of any tax audits;. <U+0095>    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+0095>    costs and outcomes of any litigation involving intellectual property, drug pricing or reimbursement, product liability, customers or other issues;. <U+0095>    timing of revenue recognition related to licensing agreements and/or strategic collaborations; and. <U+0095>    risks related to the growth of our business across numerous countries world-wide and the inherent international economic, regulatory, political and business risks.. 24. Table of Contents. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The above factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. Any refinancing of this substantial debt could be at significantly higher interest rates.. As of December 31, 2012, we had total debt of approximately $6.4 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could:. <U+0095>    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>    have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and affirmative and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of a failure that is not cured or waived;. <U+0095>    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures;. <U+0095>    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. <U+0095>    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionally less debt.. Additionally, certain of our financing agreements may contain cross-default or other similar provisions whereby a default under one financing agreement could result in a default under our other financing agreements.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We might then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at significantly higher interest rates, and/or incur significant transaction fees.. If we do not successfully integrate Actavis into our business operations, our business could be adversely affected.. We will need to successfully integrate the operations of the former Actavis Group with our business operations. Integrating the operations of the former Actavis Group with that of our own will be a complex and time-consuming process. Prior to the Actavis Group acquisition, it operated independently, with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. There may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in any integration of the business of the former Actavis Group with that of our own. These may include:. <U+0095>    distracting management from day-to-day operations;. <U+0095>    potential incompatibility of corporate cultures;. <U+0095>    an inability to achieve synergies as planned;. <U+0095>    costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; and. <U+0095>    increased difficulties in managing our business due to the addition of international locations.. Many of these risks may be accentuated because the majority of the former Actavis group's operations, employees and customers are located outside of the United States. Any one or all of these factors may increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance. Many of these factors are also outside of our control.. 25. Table of Contents. Achieving anticipated synergies and the potential benefits underlying our reasons for the Actavis Group acquisition will depend on successful integration of the businesses. The failure to integrate the business operations of the former Actavis Group successfully would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, our operating results will suffer.. Our future results of operations will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new brand and generic products in a timely manner. There are numerous difficulties in developing and commercializing new products, including:. <U+0095>    developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory standards in a timely manner;. <U+0095>    receiving requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner or at all;. <U+0095>    the availability, on commercially reasonable terms, of raw materials, including API and other key ingredients;. <U+0095>    developing and commercializing a new product is time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors, including legal actions brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of new products;. <U+0095>    experiencing delays as a result of limited resources at FDA or other regulatory agencies;. <U+0095>    changing review and approval policies and standards at FDA and other regulatory agencies; and. <U+0095>    commercializing generic products may be substantially delayed by the listing with the FDA of patents that have the effect of potentially delaying approval of a generic product by up to 30 months.. As a result of these and other difficulties, products currently in development by us may or may not receive timely regulatory approvals, or approvals at all, necessary for marketing by us or other third-party partners. This risk particularly exists with respect to the development of proprietary products because of the uncertainties, higher costs and lengthy time frames associated with research and development of such products and the inherent unproven market acceptance of such products. Additionally, we face heightened risks in connection with our development of extended release or controlled release generic products because of the technical difficulties and regulatory requirements related to such products. Additionally, with respect to generic products for which we are the first applicant to request approval on the basis that an innovator patent is invalid or not infringed (a paragraph IV filing), our ability to obtain 180 days of generic market exclusivity may be contingent on our ability to obtain FDA approval or tentative approval within 30 months of FDA's acceptance of our application for filing. We therefore risk forfeiting such market exclusivity if we are unable to obtain such approval or tentative approval on a timely basis. If any of our products are not timely approved or, when acquired or developed and approved, cannot be successfully manufactured or timely commercialized, our operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that any investment we make in developing products will be recouped, even if we are successful in commercializing those products.. Our brand pharmaceutical expenditures may not result in commercially successful products.. Developing and commercializing brand pharmaceutical products is generally more costly than generic products. In the future, we anticipate continuing our product development expenditures for our Actavis Specialty Brands business segment. For example in 2012, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for our EsmyaTM product for treatment of uterine fibroids. Such clinical trials are costly and may not result in successful outcomes. We cannot be sure that our business expenditures, including but not limited to our expenditures related to our EsmyaTM product, will result in the successful discovery, development or launch of brand products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long- term profitability of our business. If such business expenditures do not result in successful discovery, development or launch of commercially successful brand products our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 26. Table of Contents. Our investments in biosimilar products may not result in products that are approved by the FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory authorities and, even if approved by such authorities, may not result in commercially successful products.. In 2011, we entered into an agreement with Amgen to collaborate on the development and commercialization of biosimilar products. Under the agreement, we will be required to invest up to $400.0 million in furtherance of the development and regulatory approval of such products. Although Amgen, our development partner, has substantial expertise and experience in the development of biological products, significant uncertainty remains concerning the regulatory pathway in the United States and in other countries to obtain regulatory approval of biosimilar products, and the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. In particular, although recently enacted legislation authorizes the FDA to establish a regulatory pathway for the review and approval of such products, to date no such pathway has been established. Even if FDA enacts rules and regulations concerning the development and approval of follow on biosimilars, such regulations could include provisions that provide up to twelve or more years of exclusive marketing rights for the original developer of the product on which a follow on biosimilar product is based. Additionally, biosimilar products will likely be subject to extensive patent clearances and/or patent infringement litigation, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a product for many years. Further, our collaboration with Amgen may not be result in products that meet the requirements established by the FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory authorities. If our collaboration does result in biosimilar products that obtain FDA or other ex-U.S. regulatory authority approval, such product(s) may not be commercially successful and/or may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. Market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to patients, physicians and payors that such products are safe and efficacious compared to other existing products yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. If our collaboration with Amgen does not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Any acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses, may be difficult to integrate, could adversely affect our relationships with key customers, and/or could result in significant charges to earnings.. We regularly review potential acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating operations, personnel, technologies and products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not obtain the advantages and synergies that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business, technology and information systems, customer or employee base, including diversion of management's attention from our continuing operations. There is also a risk that key employees of companies that we acquire or key employees necessary to successfully commercialize technologies and products that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, there may be overlap between our products or customers and the companies that we acquire that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses. If we are unable to successfully integrate products, technologies, businesses or personnel that we acquire, we could incur significant impairment charges or other adverse financial consequences.. In addition, as a result of acquiring businesses or products, or entering into other significant transactions, we have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, significant charges to earnings for merger and related expenses. These costs may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, and severance and other closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate or discontinued products, operations and facilities. Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods.. 27. Table of Contents. If we are unsuccessful in our joint ventures and other collaborations, our operating results could suffer.. We have made substantial investments in joint ventures and other collaborations and may use these and other methods to develop or commercialize products in the future. These arrangements typically involve other pharmaceutical companies as partners that may be competitors of ours in certain markets. In many instances, we will not control these joint ventures or collaborations or the commercial exploitation of the licensed products, and cannot assure you that these ventures will be profitable. Although restrictions contained in certain of these programs have not had a material adverse impact on the marketing of our own products to date, any such marketing restrictions could affect future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our results of operations may suffer if existing joint venture or collaboration partners withdraw, or if these products are not timely developed, approved or successfully commercialized.. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patents, our business could suffer.. Our success with the brand products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for these products. We currently have a number of U.S. and foreign patents issued and pending. However, issuance of a patent is not conclusive evidence of its validity or enforceability. We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future, or that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged. If our current and future patent applications are not approved or, if approved, our patents are not upheld in a court of law if challenged, it may reduce our ability to competitively exploit our patented products. Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially market these products may be diminished. For example, in October 2011, we received notice that competitors had filed ANDAs seeking approval to market a generic version of our Generess® Fe product prior to expiration of the patents that protect the product. Our licensor, Warner-Chilcott Company filed suit against both ANDA filers in November and December of 2011. Additionally, patents covering our Androderm® and INFed® products have expired and we have no further patent protection on these products. Therefore, it is possible that a competitor may launch a generic version of Androderm® and/or INFed® at any time, which would result in a significant decline in that product's revenue and profit. Both of these products were significant contributors to our Actavis Specialty Brands business in 2012.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our partners, customers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors.. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or propriety know-how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer.. If pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative, regulatory and other efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer.. Many pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included:. <U+0095>    making changes to the formulation of the brand product and arguing that potential generic competitors must demonstrate bioequivalency or comparable abuse-resistance to the reformulated brand product;. <U+0095>    pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the expiration of earlier patents, which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of generics;. <U+0095>    selling the brand product as an Authorized Generic, either by the brand company directly, through an affiliate or by a marketing partner;. <U+0095>    using the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards or otherwise delay generic drug approvals;. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    seeking changes to U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization which publishes industry recognized compendia of drug standards;. <U+0095>    attempting to use the legislative and regulatory process to have drugs reclassified or rescheduled;. <U+0095>    using the legislative and regulatory process to set definitions of abuse deteriant formulations to protect brand company patents and profits;. <U+0095>    attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation;. <U+0095>    engaging in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that we are developing;. <U+0095>    entering into agreements with pharmacy benefit management companies which have the effect of blocking the dispensing of generic products; and. <U+0095>    seeking patents on methods of manufacturing certain API.. If pharmaceutical companies or other third parties are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these or other means, our sales of generic products may decline. If we experience a material decline in generic product sales, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will suffer.. If competitors are successful in limiting competition for certain generic products through their legislative, regulatory and litigation efforts, our sales of certain generic products may suffer.. Certain of our competitors have recently challenged our ability to distribute Authorized Generics during the competitors' 180-day period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Under the challenged arrangements, we have obtained rights to market and distribute under a brand manufacturer's NDA a generic alternative of the brand product. Some of our competitors have challenged the propriety of these arrangements by filing Citizen Petitions with the FDA, initiating lawsuits alleging violation of the antitrust and consumer protection laws, and seeking legislative intervention. For example, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would prohibit the marketing of Authorized Generics during the 180-day period of ANDA exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If distribution of Authorized Generic versions of brand products is otherwise restricted or found unlawful, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. From time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain.. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products.. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. This is especially true in the case of generic products on which the patent covering the brand product is expiring, an area where infringement litigation is prevalent, and in the case of new brand products where a competitor has obtained patents for similar products. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or market products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. For example, we are engaged in litigation with Momenta Pharmaceuticals concerning whether our distribution and sale of enoxaparin infringes Momenta's U.S. Patent No. 7,575,886, and we continue to market enoxaparin.. 29. Table of Contents. Similarly, we are engaged in litigation with Duramed Pharmaceuticals concerning whether our Amethiatm product infringes Duramed's U.S. Patent 7,320,969 and we continue to manufacture and market our Amethiatm product. Although the parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could result in substantial monetary damage awards and could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in \"NOTE 18  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report.. Our distribution operations are highly dependent upon a primary courier service.. Product deliveries within our Anda Distribution business are highly dependent on overnight delivery services to deliver our products in a timely and reliable manner, typically by overnight service. Our Anda Distribution business ships a substantial portion of products via one courier's air and ground delivery service. If the courier terminates our contract or if we cannot renew the contract on favorable terms or enter into a contract with an equally reliable overnight courier to perform and offer the same service level at similar or more favorable rates, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our distribution operations concentrate on generic products and therefore are subject to the risks of the generic industry.. The ability of our Anda Distribution business to provide consistent, sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our participation in the launch of new products by generic manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of competition encountered by these products. This competition can result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a corresponding decrease in net sales of our Anda Distribution business. Our margins can also be affected by the risks inherent to the generic industry, which is discussed below under \"Risks Relating to Investing in the Pharmaceutical Industry.\". Our distribution operations compete directly with significant customers of our generic and brand businesses.. In our Anda Distribution business, our main competitors are McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These companies are significant customers of our Actavis Pharma and Actavis Specialty Brands operations and collectively accounted for approximately 30% of our annual net revenues in 2012. Our activities related to our Anda Distribution business, as well as the acquisition of other businesses that compete with our customers, may result in the disruption of our business, which could harm relationships with our current customers, employees or suppliers, and could adversely affect our expenses, pricing, third-party relationships and revenues. Further, a loss of a significant customer of our Actavis Pharma or Actavis Specialty Brands operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If we are unable to obtain sufficient supplies from key manufacturing sites or suppliers that in some cases may be the only source of finished products or raw materials, our ability to deliver our products to the market may be impeded.. We are required to identify the supplier(s) of all the raw materials for our products in our applications with the FDA and other regulatory agencies. To the extent practicable, we attempt to identify more than one supplier in each drug application. However, some products and raw materials are available only from a single source and, in many of our drug applications, only one supplier of products and raw materials or site of manufacture has been identified, even in instances where multiple sources exist. Some of these products have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, such as INFed®, metoprolol succinate extended release tablets,. 30. Table of Contents. methylphenidate hydrochloride extended release tablets, and a significant number of our oral contraceptive and controlled substance products. From time to time, certain of our manufacturing sites or outside suppliers have experienced regulatory or supply-related difficulties that have inhibited their ability to deliver products and raw materials to us, causing supply delays or interruptions. To the extent any difficulties experienced by our manufacturing sites or suppliers cannot be resolved or extensions of our key supply agreements cannot be negotiated within a reasonable time and on commercially reasonable terms, or if raw materials for a particular product become unavailable from an approved supplier and we are required to qualify a new supplier with the FDA, or if we are unable to do so, our profit margins and market share for the affected product could decrease or be eliminated, as well as delay our development and sales and marketing efforts. Such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our manufacturing sites outside of the United States and our arrangements with foreign suppliers are subject to certain additional risks, including the availability of government clearances, export duties, political instability, war, acts of terrorism, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the transfer of funds. For example, we obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from foreign suppliers. Arrangements with international raw material suppliers are subject to, among other things, FDA and foreign regulatory body regulation, customs clearances, various import duties and other government clearances, as well as potential shipping delays due to inclement weather, political instability, strikes or other matters outside of our control. Acts of governments outside the U.S. may affect the price or availability of raw materials needed for the development or manufacture of our products. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for R&D prior to the expiration of the applicable U.S. or foreign patents.. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods.. Consistent with industry practice we, like many generic product manufacturers, have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale inventory allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time, we may give our customers credits on our generic products that our customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products. Therefore, if new competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products, we may reduce the price of our product. As a result, we may be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. A chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the negotiated price that the wholesaler's customer pays for that product. Although we establish reserves based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and the market price of our stock.. Investigations of the calculation of average wholesale prices may adversely affect our business.. Many government and third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs and MCOs, have historically reimbursed doctors, pharmacies and others for the purchase of certain prescription drugs based on a drug's AWP or wholesale acquisition cost (\"WAC\"). In the past several years, state and federal government agencies have conducted ongoing investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to AWP and WAC, in which they have suggested that reporting of inflated AWP's or WAC's have led to excessive payments for prescription drugs. For example, beginning in July 2002, we and certain of our subsidiaries, as well as numerous other pharmaceutical companies, were named as defendants in various state and federal court actions alleging improper or fraudulent practices related to the reporting of AWP and/or WAC of certain products, and other improper acts, in order to increase prices and market shares. Additional actions are anticipated. These actions, if successful, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of. 31. Table of Contents. operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in \"NOTE 18  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report.. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties, and insurance against such potential claims is expensive and may be difficult to obtain.. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain, and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. We regularly monitor the use of our products for trends or increases in reports of adverse events or product complaints, and regularly report such matters to the FDA. In some, but not all, cases an increase in adverse event reports may be an indication that there has been a change in a product's specifications or efficacy. Such changes could lead to a recall of the product in question or, in some cases, increases in product liability claims related to the product in question. If the coverage limits for product liability insurance policies are not adequate or if certain of our products are excluded from coverage, a claim brought against us, whether covered by insurance or not, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in \"NOTE 18  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report.. The loss of our key personnel could cause our business to suffer.. The success of our present and future operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of key personnel. For example, although we have other senior management personnel, a significant loss of the services of Paul Bisaro, our Chief Executive Officer, or other senior executive officers without having or hiring a suitable successor, could cause our business to suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with many of our senior executive officers but such agreements do not guarantee that our senior executive officers will remain employed by us for a significant period of time, or at all. We do not carry key-employee life insurance on any of our officers.. Significant balances of intangible assets, including product rights and goodwill acquired, are subject to impairment testing and may result in impairment charges, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of our total assets is related to acquired intangibles and goodwill. As of December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our product rights and other intangible assets was approximately $3.83 billion and the carrying value of our goodwill was approximately $4.76 billion.. Our product rights are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. We determine original fair value and amortization periods for product rights based on our assessment of various factors impacting estimated useful lives and cash flows of the acquired products. Such factors include the product's position in its life cycle, the existence or absence of like products in the market, various other competitive and regulatory issues and contractual terms. Significant adverse changes to any of these factors would require us to perform an impairment test on the affected asset and, if evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our other significant intangible assets include acquired core technology and customer relationships, which are intangible assets with definite lives, our Anda trade name and acquired in-process research and development (\"IPR&D\") intangibles, acquired in recent business acquisitions, which are intangible assets with indefinite lives.. Our acquired core technology and customer relationship intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. We determined the original fair value of our other intangible assets by performing a discounted cash flow analysis, which is based on our assessment of various factors. Such factors include existing operating margins, the number of existing and potential competitors, product pricing patterns, product market. 32. Table of Contents. share analysis, product approval and launch dates, the effects of competition, customer attrition rates, consolidation within the industry and generic product lifecycle estimates. Our other intangible assets with definite lives are tested for impairment when there are significant changes to any of these factors. If evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Goodwill, our Anda trade name intangible asset and our IPR&D intangible assets are tested for impairment annually when events occur or circumstances change that could potentially reduce the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset. Impairment testing compares the fair value of the reporting unit or intangible asset to its carrying amount. A goodwill, trade name or IPR&D impairment, if any, would be recorded in operating income and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We may consider issuing additional debt or equity securities in the future to fund potential acquisitions or investments, to refinance existing debt, or for general corporate purposes. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses and potentially lower our credit ratings. We may not be able to market such issuances on favorable terms, or at all, in which case, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.. Our business could suffer as a result of manufacturing difficulties or delays.. The manufacture of certain of our products and product candidates, particularly our controlled-release products, transdermal products, injectable products, and our oral contraceptive products, is more difficult than the manufacture of immediate-release products. Successful manufacturing of these types of products requires precise manufacturing process controls, API that conforms to very tight tolerances for specific characteristics and equipment that operates consistently within narrow performance ranges. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements, and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter.. Our manufacturing and other processes utilize sophisticated equipment, which sometimes require a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or a portion or all of our facilities were to become inoperable for a period of time. This could occur for various reasons, including catastrophic events such as earthquake, monsoon, hurricane or explosion, unexpected equipment failures or delays in obtaining components or replacements thereof, as well as construction delays or defects and other events, both within and outside of our control. Our inability to timely manufacture any of our significant products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental liabilities.. Our product and API development programs, manufacturing processes and distribution logistics involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds in our owned and leased facilities. As a result, we are subject to numerous and increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous materials and the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable. 33. Table of Contents. for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, environmental permits and controls are required for some of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by the issuing authorities. Any modification, revocation or non-renewal of our environmental permits could have a material adverse effect on our ongoing operations, business and financial condition. Our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities.. Global economic conditions could harm us.. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies during 2010, 2011 and continuing in 2012. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global real estate markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels.. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have resulted in a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs.. Our foreign operations may become less attractive if political and diplomatic relations between the United States and any country where we conduct business operations deteriorates.. The relationship between the United States and the foreign countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over time. Changes in the state of the relations between any such country and the United States are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of the political and diplomatic relations between the United States and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.. We operate on a global basis with offices or activities in Europe, Iceland, Africa, Asia, South America, Australasia and North America. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other U.S. federal laws and regulations established by the office of Foreign Asset Control, local laws such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 or other local laws which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached by us, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements, or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability. 34. Table of Contents. to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these challenges. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties.. In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including:. <U+0095>    longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. <U+0095>    political and economic instability;. <U+0095>    potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers;. <U+0095>    difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;. <U+0095>    difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights; and. <U+0095>    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. These factors or any combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue or our overall financial performance.. We have exposure to tax liabilities.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Recent proposals by the current U.S. administration for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, including without limitation provisions that would limit the ability of U.S. multinationals to defer U.S. taxes on foreign income, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate following the Actavis Group acquisition.. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We do business and generate sales in numerous countries outside the United States. As such, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. Some of our operating expenses are incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar could increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Prior to the Actavis Group acquisition, the Actavis Group was a privately-held company and its new obligations of being a part of a public company may require significant resources and management attention.. As a result of the Actavis Group acquisition, the Actavis companies became subsidiaries of our consolidated company, and will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We will need to ensure that we establish and maintain effective disclosure controls as well as internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, and such compliance efforts may be costly and may divert the attention of management.. 35. Table of Contents. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction, integration and restructuring costs in connection with the Actavis Group acquisition.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction costs related to the Actavis Group acquisition. In addition, we will incur integration and restructuring costs as we integrate the legacy Actavis businesses. Although we expect that the realization of benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset these transaction costs, integration and restructuring costs over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill and other intangibles recorded in connection with the Actavis Group acquisition would negatively affect the combined company's financial results.. Upon consummation of the Actavis Group acquisition, we recorded goodwill of approximately $2,813.9 million. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is deemed to have occurred, and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. Under current accounting rules, this would result in a charge to the combined company's operating earnings. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill recorded in connection with the Actavis Group acquisition would negatively affect our results of operations. We also allocated approximately $2,378.1 million of the total consideration paid in connection with the Actavis Group acquisition to identified intangibles representing currently marketed products (\"CMP\") and approximately $194.4 million to identified in-process research and development (\"IPR&D\") intangible products. The CMP and IPR&D amounts will be subject to future impairment testing if market conditions for the underlying products experience a significant adverse change. If evidence of impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge to our operating earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Substantial amounts of our information concerning our products, customers, employees and ongoing business are stored digitally and is subject to threats of theft, tampering, or other intrusion.. We collect and maintain information in digital form that is necessary to conduct our business. This digital information includes, but is not limited to, confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. We have established physical, electronic, and organizational measures to safeguard and secure our systems to prevent a data compromise, and rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of digital information. However, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become increasingly more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of a future data compromise cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with intrusion, tampering, and theft remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue our business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems are compromised, our business operations may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished, and we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured resulting in loss of business and/or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or be required to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of such incidents.. 36. Table of Contents. Risks Relating To Investing In the Pharmaceutical Industry. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities.. All pharmaceutical companies, including Actavis, Inc., are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving government regulation. For the U.S., this is principally administered by the FDA and to a lesser extent by the DEA and state government agencies, as well as by varying regulatory agencies in foreign countries where products or product candidates are being manufactured and/or marketed. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations, and similar foreign statutes and regulations, govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products.. Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA and similar ex-U.S. authorities, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. In addition, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies conduct pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes are in compliance with cGMP and other regulations. Following such inspections, the FDA or other agency may issue observations, notices, citations and/or Warning Letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. FDA guidelines specify that a Warning Letter is issued only for violations of \"regulatory significance\" for which the failure to adequately and promptly achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns would result in product liability claims, labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions.. Our manufacturing facility in Corona, California is currently subject to a consent decree of permanent injunction. We cannot assure that the FDA will determine we have adequately corrected deficiencies at our Corona manufacturing site, that subsequent FDA inspections at any of our manufacturing sites will not result in additional inspectional observations at such sites, that approval of any of the pending or subsequently submitted NDAs, ANDAs or supplements to such applications by Actavis or our subsidiaries will be granted or that the FDA will not seek to impose additional sanctions against Actavis or any of its subsidiaries. The range of possible sanctions includes, among others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA's review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. Any such sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Similar sanctions as detailed above may be available to the FDA under a consent decree, depending upon the actual terms of such decree. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if these programs do not meet regulatory agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain of our vendors are subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections.. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming and costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental or third-party approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is always the chance that we will not obtain FDA or other necessary approvals, or that the rate, timing and cost of obtaining such approvals, will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. We carry inventories of certain product(s) in anticipation of launch, and if such product(s) are not subsequently launched, we may be required to write-off the related inventory.. Our Anda Distribution operations and our customers are subject to various regulatory requirements, including requirements from the DEA, FDA, state boards of pharmacy and city and county health regulators, among others. These include licensing, registration, recordkeeping, security and reporting requirements. The DEA requires our Anda Distribution business to monitor customer orders of DEA Scheduled Drugs and to report suspicious orders to the DEA. Any determination by the DEA that we have failed to comply with applicable laws. 37. Table of Contents. and regulations could result in DEA suspending, terminating or refusing to renew Anda Distribution's license to distribute Scheduled Drugs. Additionally, although physicians may prescribe FDA approved products for an \"off label\" indication, we are permitted to market our products only for the indications for which they have been approved. Some of our products are prescribed off label and FDA or other regulatory authorities could take enforcement actions if they conclude that we or our distributors have engaged in off label marketing. In addition, several states and the federal government have begun to enforce anti-counterfeit drug pedigree laws which require the tracking of all transactions involving prescription drugs beginning with the manufacturer, through the supply chain, and down to the pharmacy or other health care provider dispensing or administering prescription drug products. For example, effective July 1, 2006, the Florida Department of Health began enforcement of the drug pedigree requirements for distribution of prescription drugs in the State of Florida. Pursuant to Florida law and regulations, wholesalers and distributors, including our subsidiary, Anda Pharmaceuticals, are required to maintain records documenting the chain of custody of prescription drug products they distribute beginning with the purchase of products from the manufacturer. These entities are required to provide documentation of the prior transaction(s) to their customers in Florida, including pharmacies and other health care entities. Several other states have proposed or enacted legislation to implement similar or more stringent drug pedigree requirements. In addition, federal law requires that a \"non-authorized distributor of record\" must provide a drug pedigree documenting the prior purchase of a prescription drug from the manufacturer or from an \"authorized distributor of record.\" In cases where the wholesaler or distributor selling the drug product is not deemed an \"authorized distributor of record\" it would need to maintain such records. FDA had announced its intent to impose additional drug pedigree requirements (e.g., tracking of lot numbers and documentation of all transactions) through implementation of drug pedigree regulations which were to have taken effect on December 1, 2006. However, a federal appeals court has issued a preliminary injunction to several wholesale distributors granting an indefinite stay of these regulations pending a challenge to the regulations by these wholesale distributors.. The supply of APIs into Europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the European Union.. On July 2, 2013, all active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) imported into the European Union (EU) must be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice (GMP) standards established by the EU, as stipulated by the International Conference for Harmonization (ICH Q7). These new regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. Accordingly, as of July 2, 2013, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must: (i) insure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export API into the EU comply with EU manufacturing standards and; (ii) for each API exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to EU manufacturing standards. If not postponed or modified, the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting API may cause a shortage of API necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. A shortage in API may cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those API manufacturers unable to export. This could adversely affect the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Federal regulation of arrangements between manufacturers of brand and generic products could adversely affect our business.. As part of the MMA, companies are required to file with the FTC and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into between brand and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of brand drugs. This requirement, as well as new legislation pending in U.S. Congress related to settlements between brand and generic drug manufacturers, could affect the manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other disputes with brand pharmaceutical companies and could result generally in an increase in private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies or additional investigations or proceedings by the FTC or other governmental authorities. The impact of this requirement, the pending legislation and the potential private-party lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers, is uncertain and could. adversely affect our business. For example, in January 2009, the FTC and the State of California filed a lawsuit. 38. Table of Contents. against us alleging that our settlement with Solvay related to our ANDA for a generic version of Androgel® is unlawful. Numerous private parties purporting to represent various classes of plaintiffs filed similar lawsuits. We have also received requests for information and Statements of Objection in connection with investigations into settlements and other arrangements between competing pharmaceutical companies by the European Competition Commission. For example, two of our Arrow Group subsidiaries currently are the subject of a European Competition Commission Statement of Objection related to their 2002 and 2003 settlements of patent litigation related to citalopram. Any adverse outcome of these actions or investigations, or actions or investigations related to other settlements we have entered into, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in \"NOTE 18  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report.. We are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws which may adversely affect our business.. In the United States, most of our products are reimbursed under federal and state health care programs such as Medicaid, Medicare, TriCare, and or state pharmaceutical assistance programs. Many foreign countries have similar laws. Federal and state laws designed to prevent fraud and abuse under these programs prohibit pharmaceutical companies from offering valuable items or services to customers or potential customers to induce them to buy, prescribe, or recommend Actavis' product (the so-called \"antikickback\" laws). Exceptions are provided for discounts and certain other arrangements if specified requirements are met. Other federal and state laws, and similar foreign laws, not only prohibit us from submitting any false information to government reimbursement programs but also prohibit us and our employees from doing anything to cause, assist, or encourage our customers to submit false claims for payment to these programs. Violations of the fraud and abuse laws may result in severe penalties against the responsible employees and Actavis, including jail sentences, large fines, and the exclusion of Actavis products from reimbursement under federal and state programs. Actavis is committed to conducting the sales and marketing of its products in compliance with the healthcare fraud and abuse laws, but certain applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, or should an employee violate these laws without our knowledge, a governmental authority may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. For example, in December 2009, we learned that numerous pharmaceutical companies, including certain subsidiaries of the Company, have been named as defendants in a qui tam action pending in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts alleging that the defendants falsely reported to the United States that certain pharmaceutical products were eligible for Medicaid reimbursement and thereby allegedly caused false claims for payment to be made through the Medicaid program. Any adverse outcome of this action, or the imposition of penalties or sanctions for failing to comply with the fraud and abuse laws, could adversely affect us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Legal Matters in \"NOTE 18  -  Commitments and Contingencies\" in the accompanying \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" in this Annual Report.. Healthcare reform and a reduction in the coverage and reimbursement levels by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payers may adversely affect our business.. Demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is available from third-party payers, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private payors. In order to commercialize our products, we have obtained from government authorities and private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs and MCOs, recognition for coverage and reimbursement at varying levels for the cost of certain of our products and related treatments. Third-party payers increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. Further, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs create uncertainties regarding the future levels of coverage and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reform could reduce reimbursement of our pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in the product demand. This could affect our ability to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 39. Table of Contents. There is uncertainty surrounding implementation of legislation involving payments for pharmaceuticals under government programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare. Depending on how existing provisions are implemented, the methodology for certain payment rates and other computations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program reimbursements may be reduced or not be available for some of Actavis' products. Additionally, any reimbursement granted may not be maintained or limits on reimbursement available from third-party payers may reduce demand for, or negatively affect the price of those products. Ongoing uncertainty and challenges to the Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\"), including but not limited to, modification in calculation of rebates, mandated financial or other contributions to close the Medicare Part D coverage gap \"donut hole\", calculation of AMP, and other provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, various legislative and regulatory initiatives in states, including proposed modifications to reimbursements and rebates, product pedigree and tracking, pharmaceutical waste \"take-back\" initiatives, and therapeutic category generic substitution carve-out legislation may also have a negative impact on the Company. Actavis maintains a full-time government affairs department in Washington, DC, which is responsible for coordinating state and federal legislative activities, and places a major emphasis in terms of management time and resources to ensure a fair and balanced legislative and regulatory arena.. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent on our timely development and launches of new products ahead of our competitors.. We face strong competition in our Actavis Pharma, Actavis Specialty Brands and Anda Distribution businesses. The intensely competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively, including the ability to communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of brand products to healthcare professionals in private practice, group practices and MCOs. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories, and within each product category, upon dosage strengths and drug-delivery systems. Based on total assets, annual revenues, and market capitalization, we are smaller than certain of our national and international competitors in the brand and distribution product arenas. Most of our competitors have been in business for a longer period of time than us, have a greater number of products on the market and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, recent trends in this industry are toward further market consolidation of large drug companies into a smaller number of very large entities, further concentrating financial, technical and market strength and increasing competitive pressure in the industry. If we directly compete with them for the same markets and/or products, their financial strength could prevent us from capturing a profitable share of those markets. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete.. Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on certain regulatory and competitive factors. As patents for brand name products and related exclusivity periods expire, the first generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents of such products is generally able to achieve significant market penetration. Therefore, our ability to increase or maintain revenues and profitability in our generics business is largely dependent on our success in challenging patents and developing non-infringing formulations of proprietary products. As competing manufacturers receive regulatory approvals on similar products or as brand manufacturers launch generic versions of such products (for which no separate regulatory approval is required), market share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, in some cases dramatically. Accordingly, the level of market share, revenue and gross profit attributable to a particular generic product normally is related to the number of competitors in that product's market and the timing of that product's regulatory approval and launch, in relation to competing approvals and launches. Consequently, we must continue to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner to maintain our revenues and gross margins. We may have fewer opportunities to launch significant generic products in the future, as the number and size of proprietary products that are subject to patent challenges is expected to decrease in the next several years compared to historical levels. Additionally, as new competitors enter the market, there may be increased pricing pressure on certain products, which would result in lower gross margins. This is particularly true in the case of certain Asian and other overseas generic competitors, who may be able to produce products at costs lower than the costs of domestic manufacturers. If we experience substantial competition from Asian or other overseas generic competitors with lower production costs, our profit margins will suffer.. 40. Table of Contents. We also face strong competition in our Anda Distribution business, where we compete with a number of large wholesalers and other distributors of pharmaceuticals, including McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., which market both brand and generic pharmaceutical products to their customers. These companies are significant customers of our Actavis Specialty Brands and Actavis Pharma businesses. As generic products generally have higher gross margins for distributors, each of the large wholesalers, on an increasing basis, are offering pricing incentives on brand products if the customers purchase a large portion of their generic pharmaceutical products from the primary wholesaler. As we do not offer a full line of brand products to our customers, we are at times competitively disadvantaged and must compete with these wholesalers based upon our very competitive pricing for generic products, greater service levels and our well-established telemarketing relationships with our customers, supplemented by our electronic ordering capabilities. The large wholesalers have historically not used telemarketers to sell to their customers, but recently have begun to do so. Additionally, generic manufacturers are increasingly marketing their products directly to smaller chains and thus increasingly bypassing wholesalers and distributors. Increased competition in the generic industry as a whole may result in increased price erosion in the pursuit of market share.. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our distribution network and the concentration of our customer base.. Our principal customers in our brand and generic pharmaceutical operations are wholesale drug distributors and major retail drug store chains. These customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers will increase pricing and other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Actavis.. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our two largest customers accounted for 16% and 14%, respectively, of our net revenues. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, none of our customers are party to any long-term supply agreements with us, and thus are able to change suppliers freely should they wish to do so.. As a result of the Actavis Group acquisition, we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Recent proposals by the current U.S. administration for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, including without limitation provisions that would limit the ability of U.S. multinationals to defer U.S. taxes on foreign income, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate following the Actavis Group acquisition.. As a result of the Actavis Group acquisition, we will be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations.. As a result of the Actavis Group acquisition, we will be subject to new and additional risks associated with the business and operations of Actavis. The additional risks we may be exposed to include but are not limited to the following:. <U+0095>    tariffs and trade barriers;. <U+0095>    regulations related to customs and import/export matters (including sanctions);. <U+0095>    longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>    tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the jurisdictions in which we already operate;. <U+0095>    challenges in collecting accounts receivable from customers in the new jurisdictions in which we will operate;. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    complying with laws, rules and regulations relating to the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products in the new jurisdictions in which we will operate;. <U+0095>    operating under regulations in new jurisdictions related to obtaining eligibility for government or private payor reimbursement for our products at the wholesale/retail level;. <U+0095>    competition from new local, regional and international competitors;. <U+0095>    competing in additional markets where generic products are sold under branded trade names;. <U+0095>    cultural and language differences in the new jurisdictions in which we will operate;. <U+0095>    complying with additional employment regulations in the new jurisdictions in which we will operate; union workforce negotiations and potential disputes; and. <U+0095>    risks related to crimes, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars in a variety of new geographical locations.. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we are unable to do so, our operations might suffer.. Our ex-U.S. operations may become less attractive if political and diplomatic relations between the United States and any country where we conduct business operations deteriorates.. The relationship between the United States and the countries where we conduct business operations may weaken over time. Changes in the state of the relations between any such country and the United States are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any meaningful deterioration of the political and diplomatic relations between the United States and the relevant country could have a material adverse effect on our operations."
