[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Future reductions or changes in U.S. government spending could adversely affect our financial results.. Our primary aerospace and defense customers include the DoD and its agencies, NASA, and the prime contractors that supply products to these customers. We rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on propulsion systems for defense, space and armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems and munitions applications, and our backlog depends, in a large part, on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general public policy and political support for this type of spending. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, the U.S. President must propose and Congress must appropriate funds for a given program each GFY and may significantly change, increase, reduce or eliminate, funding for a program.. A decrease in DoD and/or NASA expenditures, the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, or changes in payment patterns of our customers as a result of changes in U.S. government spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. The cancellation or material modification of one or more significant contracts could adversely affect our financial results.. Sales, directly and indirectly, to the U.S. government and its agencies accounted for approximately 92% of our total net sales in fiscal 2017. Our contracts typically permit the U.S. government to unilaterally modify or terminate a contract or to discontinue funding for a particular program at any time. The cancellation of a contract, if terminated for cause, could also subject us to liability for the excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If terminated for convenience, our recovery of costs would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed (including severance costs for terminated employees), and our profit would be limited based on the work completed prior to termination.. In addition, termination or suspension of any of our significant commercial contracts could result in the loss of future sales and unreimbursable expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.  Furthermore, the termination of any such contracts for default could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and ability to obtain new business in the future.. If we experience cost overruns on our contracts, we would have to absorb the excess costs which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to win new contracts.. In fiscal 2017, approximately 60% of our net sales were from fixed-price contracts, most of which are in mature production mode. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform specified work for a fixed price and realize all of the profit or loss resulting from variations in the costs of performing the contract. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns. To the extent we were to incur unanticipated cost overruns on a program or. 9. platform subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Future profitability is subject to risks including the ability of suppliers to deliver components of acceptable quality on schedule and the successful implementation of automated tooling in production processes.. In fiscal 2017, approximately 36% of our net sales were from cost reimbursable contracts. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we agree to be reimbursed for allowable costs and be paid a fee. If our costs are in excess of the final target cost, fees and our margin may be adversely affected. If our costs exceed authorized contract funding or they do not qualify as allowable costs under applicable regulations, those costs are expensed, and we will not be reimbursed for those costs. Cost overruns may adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts.. Also, certain costs such as those related to charitable contributions, advertising, interest expense, and public relations are generally not allowable, and therefore not recoverable through U.S. government contracts.  Unexpected variances in unallowable costs may adversely affect our financial performance.. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our contract performance and our ability to win new contracts may be adversely affected.. We rely on subcontractors to perform a portion of the services we agree to provide our customers, and on suppliers to provide raw materials and component parts for our contract performance. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon services or supplies may affect our ability to perform our contractual obligations. Deficiencies in the performance of our subcontractors and/or suppliers could result in liquidated damages or our customer terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to win new contracts.. Our success and growth in our Aerospace and Defense segment depends on our ability to execute long-standing programs and periodically secure new contracts in a competitive environment.. Aerojet Rocketdyne's revenue is primarily derived from long-standing contracts (often sole source) where Aerojet Rocketdyne is the long-term incumbent. The challenge for Aerojet Rocketdyne is to successfully utilize its technical, engineering, manufacturing, and management skills to execute these programs for the customer, to continue to innovate and refine its solutions, and to offer the customer increasing affordability in an era of fiscal restraint. If Aerojet Rocketdyne is unable to successfully execute these long-standing programs, our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers may be impaired.. In addition, in sectors where there is competition, it can be intense. For example, we face increasing competition from entrepreneurs such as SpaceX and Blue Origin, who have been or are in the process of developing liquid fuel propulsion capabilities which are primarily focused on the development of space propulsion systems for heavy lift launch vehicles. These new entrepreneurs have signaled their intent to compete primarily on price and are therefore bringing pressure to bear on existing cost paradigms and our manufacturing methodologies. The U.S. government also has its own manufacturing capabilities in some areas. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in sales, profits, and cash flows that we historically have generated from certain contracts. Further, the U.S. government may open to competition programs on which we are currently the sole supplier, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Our Aerospace and Defense segment is subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations inherent in contracting with the U.S. government, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our financial results.. In the performance of contracts with the U.S. government, we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies, such as the DCAA. These agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management and accounting system. Any costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. If such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business.. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if it deems appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of their contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with. 10. the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired.. Our competitive improvement program (\"CIP\") may not be successful in aligning our operations to current market conditions.. During fiscal 2015, we initiated the first phase (\"Phase I\") of the CIP comprised of activities and initiatives aimed at reducing costs in order for us to continue to compete successfully. Phase I is composed of three major components: (i) facilities optimization and footprint reduction; (ii) product affordability; and (iii) reduced administrative and overhead costs. On April 6, 2017, the Board of Directors approved the second phase (\"Phase II\") of our previously announced CIP. Pursuant to Phase II, we expanded CIP and further consolidated our Sacramento, California, and Gainesville, Virginia sites, while centralizing and expanding our existing presence in Huntsville, Alabama. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenditures to implement the CIP, and we expect to realize significant future cost savings as a result. The cost savings will be realized by the U.S government in the form of more competitive pricing. The CIP may not be successful in achieving these cost savings and other benefits within the expected timeframes, may be insufficient to successfully restructure our operations through, among other ways, the relocation of programs or the inability to transition institutional program knowledge, to conform with the changes affecting our industry, may disrupt our operations, or may be more costly than currently anticipated. See additional information in Note 11 in notes to the consolidated financial statements.. We may expand our operations through acquisitions, which may divert management's attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. Also, acquisitions may increase our non-reimbursable costs. We may experience difficulties integrating any acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated.. Our business strategy may lead us to expand our Aerospace and Defense segment through acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by U.S. government regulations, the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources, and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management's attention from operational matters, implement internal controls, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, re-qualify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs, and/or contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated.. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we have acquired or may acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to, or were unable to, discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor, or other reasons.. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive.. The aerospace and defense industry continues to undergo rapid and significant technological development. Our competitors may implement new technologies before us, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could:. • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner;. • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment, and technology;. • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or. • require significant capital expenditures for research, development, and launch of new products or processes.. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure or adversely impacted by a successful cyber-attack.. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, insider threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises.. We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts to gain access to our sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other partners. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement.. 11. Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, however this may not continue to be the case in the future. Cyber security assessment analyses undertaken by us identified and prioritized steps to enhance our cyber security safeguards. We are in the process of implementing these recommendations to enhance our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures. Despite the implementation of these new safeguards, there can be no assurance that we will adequately protect our information or that we will not experience any future successful attacks. The threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. If we are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.. We recently outsourced certain information technology and cyber security functions to third-party contractors in order to take advantage of advanced cyber security technologies. The transition may present unexpected security vulnerabilities, additional costs, and result in our having less control over the performance and delivery of such services.. Although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, and subcontractors to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. These entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with U.S. government contractors, such as Aerojet Rocketdyne, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we face.. The DoD and NASA have contract provisions that require contractors at the prime and subcontract level to comply with Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting and Security Requirements for Unclassified Information Technology Resources in accordance with their agency guidelines.  These clauses are being inserted in or made applicable to U.S. government contracts and non-compliance may impact our ability to receive contracts if we cannot comply or use alternative approaches to comply with the contract information security requirements.. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our cyber security protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses. These costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price; or such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services, or contractual penalties.. We may experience warranty claims for product failures, schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems.. Many of the products we develop and manufacture are technologically advanced systems that must function under demanding operating conditions. Even though we believe that we employ sophisticated and rigorous design, manufacturing and testing processes and practices, we may not be able to successfully launch or manufacture our products on schedule or our products may not perform as intended.. If our products fail to perform adequately, some of our contracts require us to forfeit a portion of our expected profit, receive reduced payments, provide a replacement product or service or reduce the price of subsequent sales to the same customer. Performance penalties may also be imposed if we fail to meet delivery schedules or other measures of contract performance. We do not generally insure against potential costs resulting from any required remedial actions or costs or loss of sales due to postponement or cancellation of scheduled operations or product deliveries.. The release, unplanned ignition, explosion, or improper handling of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our financial results.. Our business operations involve the handling, production, and disposition of potentially explosive and ignitable energetic materials and other dangerous chemicals, including motors and other materials used in rocket propulsion. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling, production, transport, and disposition of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an unplanned ignition or explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, unplanned ignition or fire were to occur. Extensive regulations apply to the handling of explosive and energetic materials, including but not limited to, regulations governing hazardous substances and hazardous waste. The failure to properly store and ultimately dispose of such materials could create significant liability and/or result in regulatory sanctions. Any release, unplanned ignition or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. 12. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials, difficulties in the supplier qualification process or increases in prices of raw materials could adversely affect our financial results.. We use a significant quantity of raw materials that are subject to market fluctuations and government regulations. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we are often required to procure materials from suppliers capable of meeting rigorous customer and government specifications. As market conditions change for these companies, they often discontinue materials with low sales volumes or profit margins. We are often forced to either qualify new materials or pay higher prices to maintain the supply. Although to-date we have been successful in establishing replacement materials and securing customer funding to address specific qualification needs of the programs, we may be unable to continue to do so.. The supply of ammonium perchlorate, a principal raw material used in solid propellant, is limited to a domestic independent single source that supplies the majority of the domestic solid propellant industry and actual pricing is based on the total industry demand. The completion of the Space Shuttle Program reduced demand, resulting in significant unit price increases. In the majority of our contracts, we anticipated this price increase and incorporated abnormal escalation pricing language into our proposals and contracts.. We are also impacted, as is the rest of the industry, by fluctuations in the sustained availability, prices and lead-times of raw materials used in production on various fixed-price contracts, particularly on multi-year programs. We continue to experience volatility in the price and lead-times of certain commodity metals, electronic components, and constituent chemicals. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to negotiate with our customers for economic and/or price adjustment clauses tied to obsolete materials and commodity indices to reduce program impact. The DoD also continues to rigorously enforce the provisions of the \"Berry Amendment\" which imposes a requirement to procure certain strategic materials critical to national security only from U.S. sources. While availability has not been a significant issue, cost remains a concern as this industry continues to quote \"price in effect\" at time of shipment terms, increasing the cost risk to our programs. An emerging challenge to the extended supply chain is the U.S. government contracting regulations to comply with stringent cyber security regulations that may influence the cost of material and services on U.S. government contracts. We are actively working to identify these costs to obtain protection in our contracts. Further, a relatively recent Missile Defense Agency (\"MDA\") requirement to pre-approve supplier background screening processes of personnel that will have access to \"controlled unclassified information\" and separately approve any supplier personnel with dual citizenship has been challenging due to delays at MDA in approving requests which will potentially impact the award of subcontracts while approval is pending.. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty qualifying new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, and/or a continuing volatility in the prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we expect to be required to make cash contributions in future periods, which may reduce the cash available for our businesses.. As of the last measurement date at December 31, 2017, the assets, projected benefit obligations, and unfunded pension obligation were $931.2 million, $1,442.9 million, and $511.7 million, respectively. We expect to make cash contributions of approximately $42.0 million to our tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan in fiscal 2018 of which $37.5 million is expected to be recoverable from our U.S. government contracts in fiscal 2018 with the remaining $4.5 million being potentially recoverable from our U.S. government contracts in the future. During fiscal 2017, we made cash contributions of $75.8 million to our tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan of which $33.7 million was recoverable from our U.S. government contracts in fiscal 2017 with the remaining $42.1 million expected to be recoverable from our U.S. government contracts in the future. We generally are able to recover cash contributions related to our tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan as allowable costs on our U.S. government contracts, but there can be differences between when we contribute cash to our tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan under pension funding rules and recover it under Cost Accounting Standards (\"CAS\").. The funded status of our pension plans may be adversely affected by the investment experience of the plans' assets, by any changes in U.S. law and by changes in the statutory interest rates used by tax-qualified pension plans in the U.S. to calculate funding requirements. Accordingly, if the performance of our plans' assets does not meet our assumptions, if there are changes to the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") regulations or other applicable law or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future contributions to our underfunded pension plans could be higher than we expect.. Additionally, the level of returns on retirement benefit assets, changes in interest rates, increases in Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporations premiums, changes in regulations, changes in mortality rate assumptions, and other factors affect our financial results. The timing of recognition of retirement benefit expense or income in our financial statements differs from the timing of the required funding under the Pension Protection Act (\"PPA\") or the amount of funding that can be recorded in our overhead rates through our U.S. government contracting business. Significant cash contributions in future periods could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. 13. The level of returns on retirement benefit assets, changes in interest rates, changes in legislation, and other factors affect our financial results.. Our earnings are positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense or income we record for our employee retirement benefit plans. We calculate the expense for the plans based on actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions that we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key assumptions used to estimate retirement benefit expense for the following year are the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on assets. Our pension expense or income can also be affected by legislation and other government regulatory actions.. Our operations and properties are currently the subject of significant environmental liabilities, and the numerous environmental and other government requirements to which we are subject may become more stringent in the future.. We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations that, among other things, require us to obtain permits to operate and install pollution control equipment and regulate the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes. These requirements may become more stringent in the future. Additional regulations dictate how and to what level we remediate contaminated soils and the level to which we are required to clean contaminated groundwater. These requirements may also become more stringent in the future. We may also be subject to fines and penalties relating to the operation of our existing and formerly owned businesses. We have been and are subject to toxic tort and asbestos lawsuits as well as other third-party lawsuits, due to either our past or present use of hazardous substances or the alleged on-site or off-site contamination of the environment through past or present operations. We may incur material costs in defending these claims and lawsuits and any similar claims and lawsuits that may arise in the future. Contamination at our current and former properties is subject to investigation and remediation requirements under federal, state and local laws and regulations, and the full extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Any adverse judgment or cash outlay could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Although some of our environmental expenditures may be recoverable and we have established reserves, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient, which could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate range of our estimated future environmental obligations was $341.4 million to $503.4 million and the accrued amount was $341.4 million. We believe the accrued amount for future remediation costs represents the costs that could be incurred by us over the contractual term, if any, or the next fifteen years of the estimated remediation, to the extent they are probable and reasonably estimable. However, in many cases the nature and extent of the required remediation has not yet been determined. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. For example, in fiscal 2016, we reached a decision with the U.S. government on the treatment of certain utility costs related to the Sacramento site resulting in a reserve increase of $59.4 million. We evaluate the adequacy of those reserves on a quarterly basis, and adjust them as appropriate. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional sites needing remediation may be identified or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites may be discovered. It is also possible that the regulatory agencies may change clean-up standards for chemicals of concern such as ammonium perchlorate and trichloroethylene. This could lead to additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and, given the uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient.. Most of our environmental costs are incurred by our Aerospace and Defense segment, and certain of these future costs are allowable to be included in our contracts with the U.S. government. We currently estimate approximately 24% of our Aerospace and Defense segment environmental costs will not likely be reimbursable.. Our environmental expenses related to non-Aerojet Rocketdyne sites are generally not recoverable and a significant increase in these estimated environmental expenses could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance.. A significant portion of our business relates to developing and manufacturing propulsion systems for defense and space applications, armament systems for precision tactical weapon systems, and munitions applications. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. 14. Our inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights could adversely affect our businesses' prospects and competitive positions.. We seek to protect proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other proprietary-right protection. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur significant expense in protecting our intellectual property.. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors. These agreements may be breached and remedies for a breach may not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. We generally control and limit access to our product documentation and other proprietary information. Other parties may independently develop our know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology.. Business disruptions could seriously affect us.. Our business may be affected by disruptions including, but not limited to: threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives; terrorist acts; information technology attacks or failures; damaging weather or other acts of nature; and pandemics or other public health crises. The costs related to these events may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. Disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow or if they are not able to pay dividends or otherwise distribute their cash to us, or if we have insufficient funds on hand, we may not be able to service our debt.. All of the operations of our Aerospace and Defense and Real Estate segments are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations will be largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will depend upon their operating results and cash flows and will be subject to applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their debt, if any.. We have a substantial amount of debt. Our ability to operate is limited by the agreements governing our debt.. We have a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. Interest on long-term financing is not a recoverable cost under our U.S. government contracts. As of December 31, 2017, we had $670.9 million of debt principal. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could:. • make it more difficult to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash for payments related to our debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, entitlement of our real estate assets, contributions to our tax-qualified pension plan, and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds;. • limit our ability to expand our operations through acquisitions; and. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected.. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants outlined in our debt indentures and agreements that could restrict our operating activities. A failure to comply could result in a default which would, if not waived by the lenders, likely would come with substantial cost and accelerate the payment of our debt.. Our debt instruments generally contain various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions which may restrict our ability to:. • access the full amount of our revolving credit facility and/or incur additional debt;. • enter into certain leases;. 15. • make certain distributions, investments, and other restricted payments;. • cause our restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create certain liens;. • purchase assets or businesses;. • sell assets and, if sold, retain excess cash flow from these sales; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. Our secured debt also contains other customary covenants, including, among others, provisions:. • relating to the maintenance of the property collateralizing the debt; and. • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create other liens.. In addition, certain covenants in our bank facility require that we maintain certain financial ratios.. Based on our existing debt agreements, we were in compliance with our financial and non-financial covenants as of December 31, 2017. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our amended and restated senior credit facility entered into on June 17, 2016 (the \"Senior Credit Facility\") with the lenders identified therein and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and the 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes (\"2 1/4% Notes\"). In addition, our failure to pay principal and interest when due is a default under the Senior Credit Facility, and in certain cases, would cause cross defaults on the 2 1/4% Notes.. The real estate market involves significant risk, which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our real estate activities involve significant risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various risks, including the following:. • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary re-zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects;. • we may be unable to complete environmental remediation or to have state and federal environmental restrictions on our property lifted, which could cause a delay or abandonment of these projects;. • we may be unable to obtain sufficient water sources to service our projects, which may prevent us from executing our plans;. • our real estate activities may require significant expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our plans;. • economic and political uncertainties could have an adverse effect on consumer buying habits, construction costs, availability of labor and materials and other factors affecting us and the real estate industry in general;. • our property is subject to federal, state, and local regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our plans;. • much of our property is raw land that includes the natural habitats of various endangered or protected wildlife species requiring mitigation;. • if our land use plans are approved by the appropriate governmental authorities, we may face lawsuits from those who oppose such plans (such lawsuits and the costs associated with such opposition could be material and have an adverse effect on our ability to sell property or realize income from our projects); and. • the time frame required for approval of our plans means that we will have to wait years for a significant cash return.. Substantially all of our excess real estate, that we are in the process of entitling for new opportunities, is located in Sacramento County, California, making us vulnerable to changes in economic and other conditions in that particular market.. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our long-term real estate performance and the value of our properties will depend upon conditions in the Sacramento region, including:. • the sustainability and growth of industries located in the Sacramento region;. • the financial strength and spending of the State of California;. •  local real estate market conditions;. 16. • changes in neighborhood characteristics;. • changes in interest rates; and. • real estate tax rates.. If unfavorable economic or other conditions continue in the region, our plans and business strategy could be adversely affected.. We may incur additional costs related to past or future divestitures, which could adversely affect our financial results.. In connection with our divestitures in prior periods, we have incurred and may incur additional costs. As part of our divestitures, we have provided customary indemnification to the purchasers for such matters as claims arising from the operation of the businesses prior to disposition, including income tax matters and the liability to investigate and remediate certain environmental contamination existing prior to disposition. These additional costs and the indemnification of the purchasers of our former or current businesses may require additional cash expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees.. Our business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. In addition, our inability to appropriately plan for the transfer or replacement of appropriate intellectual capital and skill sets critical to us could result in business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives.. A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial results.. As of December 31, 2017, 14% of our 5,157 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the future, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions, upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience a strike or work stoppage. Even if we are successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers or suppliers could also have similar effects on us.. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate.. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that may lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our Aerospace and Defense segment, sales earned under long-term contracts are recognized either on a cost basis, when deliveries are made, or when contractually defined performance milestones are achieved. The timing of deliveries or milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In our Real Estate segment, sales of land may be made from time to time, which may result in variability in our operating results and cash flows.. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements has been time-consuming, expensive and could expose us to additional risks that could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We have incurred expenses, including audit, legal, consulting and other professional fees, in connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and the remediation of weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken a number of steps, including adding significant internal resources and implemented a number of additional procedures, in order to strengthen our accounting function and attempt to reduce the risk of additional misstatements in our financial statements. To the extent these steps are not successful, we could be forced to incur additional time and expense. Our management's attention has also been diverted from the operation of our business in connection with the restatements and remediation of material weaknesses in our internal controls.. In addition, any stockholder, U.S. governmental or other actions brought based on the restatement of our previously issued financial statements could, regardless of the outcome, consume management's time and attention and result in additional legal, accounting, insurance and other costs.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could negatively impact the market price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. We rely on numerous manual processes to manage our business, which increases our risk of having an internal control failure. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a. 17. report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules and/or regulations differently from our interpretation, then they may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price.. In addition, we have in the past recorded, and may in the future record, revisions or out of period adjustments to our consolidated financial statements.  In making such adjustments we apply the analytical framework of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, \"Materiality\" (\"SAB 99\"), to determine whether the effect of any adjustment to our consolidated financial statements is material and whether such adjustments, individually or in the aggregate, would require us to restate our consolidated financial statements for previous periods.  Under SAB 99, companies are required to apply quantitative and qualitative factors to determine the \"materiality\" of particular adjustments.  In the future, we may identify further errors impacting our interim or annual consolidated financial statements.  Depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, this could result in us restating previously issued consolidated financial statements."
