[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The risks below are not the only risks that the Company faces.  Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial or unlikely could also adversely affect the Company.. The economic conditions in the U.S. and in other markets may negatively impact the demand for the Company's aircraft and services.. Air cargo transportation volumes are strongly correlated to general economic conditions, including the price of aviation fuel.  An economic downturn could reduce the demand for delivery services offered by DHL, Amazon and other delivery businesses, in particular expedited shipping services utilizing aircraft.  Further, during an economic slowdown, customers generally prefer to use ground-based or marine transportation services instead of more expensive air transportation services.  Accordingly, an economic downturn could reduce the demand for airlift and cargo aircraft leases.  Additionally, if the price of aviation fuel rises significantly, the demand for cargo aircraft and air transportation services may decline.  During periods of downward economic trends and rising fuel costs, freight forwarders and integrated delivery businesses are more likely to defer market expansion plans.  As a result, we may experience delays in the deployment of available aircraft with customers under lease, ACMI or charter arrangements.. Our costs incurred in providing airline services could be more than the contractual revenues generated.. Each airline develops business proposals for ACMI, charters, DHL, ASI and other operating contracts by projecting operating costs, crew productivity and maintenance expenses.  Projections contain key assumptions, including maintenance costs, flight hours, aircraft reliability, crewmember productivity and crewmember compensation and benefits.  We may overestimate revenues, the level of crewmember productivity, and/or underestimate the actual costs of providing services when preparing business proposals.  If actual costs are higher than projected or aircraft reliability is less than expected, future operating results may be negatively impacted.. The Company's airlines rely on flight crews that are unionized.  If collective bargaining agreements increase our costs and we cannot recover such increases, our operating results would be negatively impacted.  It may be necessary for us to terminate customer contracts or curtail planned growth.. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by negotiations regarding collective bargaining agreements with flight crewmember representatives.. The flight crewmembers for each of the Company's airlines are unionized.  ABX's crewmembers are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (\"IBT\") while ATI's crewmembers are represented by the Air Line Pilots Association (\"ALPA\").  The collective bargaining agreement (\"CBA\") between ABX and IBT and between ATI and ALPA are both currently amendable and the respective parties are each in the process of renegotiating the terms of their CBA.  The airline and the union are each required to maintain the status quo during the renegotiation of the CBA; neither the airline nor the union may engage in a lock-out, strike or other self-help until such time as they are released from further negotiations by the mediator for the National Mediation Board (\"NMB\"), and after the conclusion of a mandatory 30-day \"cooling off\" period.  It is rare for mediators to declare an impasse and release the parties.  Instead, the NMB prefers to require the parties to remain in negotiations until such time as they come to an agreement.  Despite this process, it's possible for disruptions in customer service to occur from time to time, resulting in increased costs for the airline and monetary penalties under certain customer agreements if monthly reliability thresholds are not achieved.  Further, if we do not maintain minimum reliability thresholds over an extended period of time, we could be found in default of a customer agreement.. Contract negotiations with the union could result in reduced flexibility for scheduling crewmembers and higher operating costs for the airlines, making the Company's airlines less competitive than other airlines.. The NMB ruled, during 2017, that ABX and ATI do not constitute a single transportation system for the purposes of collective bargaining.  The NMB could reconsider whether the airlines constitute a single transportation system and require that the ABX and ATI crewmembers be represented by the same union.  A single transportation system. 11. determination by the NMB could give rise to complex contractual issues, including integrating the airlines' seniority lists, and materially impact the dynamics with respect to future CBA negotiations.  While it is unlikely that the NMB would reconsider or find that ABX and ATI constitute a single transportation system, the case-by-case analysis used by the NMB makes such predictions uncertain.. The rate of aircraft deployments may impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.. The Company's future operating results and financial condition will depend in part on our subsidiaries' ability to successfully deploy aircraft in customers' operations while generating a positive return on investment.  Our success will depend, in part, on our customers' ability to secure additional cargo volumes, in both U.S. and international markets.  Deploying aircraft in international markets can pose additional risks, costs and regulatory requirements which could result in periods of delayed deployments.. The actual demand for Boeing 767, 757 and 737 aircraft may be less than we anticipate.  The actual lease rates for aircraft available for lease may be less than we projected, or new leases may start later than we expect.  Further, other airlines and lessors may be willing to offer aircraft to the market under terms more favorable to lessees.. We may fail to meet the scheduled delivery date for aircraft required by customer agreements.. If CAM cannot meet the agreed delivery schedule for an aircraft lease, the customer may have the right to cancel the aircraft lease, thus delaying revenues until the aircraft can be completed and re-marketed successfully.. Our airline operating agreements include on-time reliability requirements which can impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.. Certain of our airline operating agreements contain monthly incentive payments for reaching specific on-time reliability thresholds.  Additionally, such airline operating agreements contain monetary penalties for aircraft reliability below certain thresholds.  As a result, our operating revenues may vary from period to period depending on the achievement of monthly incentives or the imposition of penalties.  Further, an airline could be found in default of an agreement if it does not maintain minimum thresholds over an extended period of time.  If our airlines are placed in default due to the failure to maintain reliability thresholds, the customer may elect to terminate all or part of the services we provide under certain customer agreements after a cure period.. If ABX fails to maintain aircraft reliability above a minimum threshold under the restated CMI agreement for two consecutive calendar months or three months in a rolling twelve month period, we would be in default of the restated CMI agreement with DHL.  In that event, DHL may elect to terminate the restated CMI agreement, unless we maintain the minimum reliability threshold during a 60-day cure period.  If DHL terminates the CMI agreement due to an ABX event of default, we would be subject to a monetary penalty payable to DHL.. If our airlines fail to maintain aircraft reliability above a minimum threshold under the ATSA for either a specified number of consecutive calendar months or a specified number of calendar months (whether or not consecutive) in a specified trailing period, we could be held in default.  In that event, ASI may elect to terminate the ATSA and pursue those rights and remedies available to it at law or in equity.. The anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with Amazon may not be realized.. We entered into the agreements with Amazon with the expectation that the transactions would result in various benefits including, among others, growth in revenues, improved cash flows and operating efficiencies.  Achieving the anticipated benefits from the agreements is subject to a number of challenges and uncertainties, such as unforeseen costs.  If we are unable to achieve our objectives the expected benefits may be only partially realized or not at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's future earnings and earnings per share, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles, will be impacted by the Amazon stock warrants.. We expect that the warrants issuable to Amazon will increase the number of diluted shares reported.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company's liabilities reflected 14.83 million stock warrants issued to Amazon. Further, the warrants are subject to fair value measurements during periods that they are outstanding.  Accordingly, future fluctuations in the fair value of the warrants may adversely impact the Company's reported earnings measures.. 12. Changes in the fair value of certain  financial instruments could impact the financial results of the Company.. Certain financial instruments are subject to fair value measurements  at the end of each reporting period.  Accordingly, future fluctuations in their fair value may adversely impact the Company's reported earnings.  See Note D in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about the fair value of our financial instruments.. The convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions that we entered into in September 2017 may affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of our 1.125% senior convertible notes due 2024 (the \"Notes\") and the exercise by the initial purchasers of their option to purchase additional Notes, we entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with the hedge counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of common stock that initially underlie the Notes. We also entered into separate, privately-negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties relating to the same number of shares of our common stock that initially underlie the Notes, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.. The hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may modify their hedge positions with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions from time to time after the pricing of the Notes. They may do so by purchasing and/or selling shares of our common stock and/or other securities of ours, including the Notes in privately-negotiated transactions and/or open-market transactions or by entering into and/or unwinding various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. The hedge counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions during any observation period for the Notes.. The effect, if any, of these activities on the market price of our common stock will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and cannot be determined at this time. Any of these activities could, however, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the hedge counterparties and/or their affiliates may choose to engage in, or to discontinue engaging in, any of these transactions with or without notice at any time, and their decisions will be at their sole discretion and not within our control.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. The hedge counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that they might default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the hedge counterparties is unsecured by any collateral. Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in failure or financial difficulties for many financial institutions. If a hedge counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that hedge counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by a hedge counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any hedge counterparty.. Conversion of the Notes or exercise of the warrants may dilute the ownership interest of stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion of the Notes or such exercise of the warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. Under the provisions of airline operating and aircraft lease agreements with customers, customers may be able to terminate the operating agreements or aircraft lease agreements, subject to early termination provisions.. Customers can typically terminate one or more of the aircraft from their related airline operating agreement for convenience at any time during the term, subject to a 60 day notice period and paying the Company a fee.  Additionally, the lease agreements may contain provisions for terminating an aircraft lease for convenience, including a notice period and paying a lump sum amount to the Company.. Amazon may terminate the ATSA in its entirety after providing 180 days of advance notice after the first six months of the term and paying to the Company a significant termination fee which reduces after the second anniversary of the ATSA.. DHL may terminate the restated CMI agreement in its entirety after providing 180 days of advance notice after the first six months of the term and paying a significant termination fee which amortizes down during the term.. 13. The U.S. Military may not renew our contracts or may reduce the number of routes that we operate.. Our contracts with the U.S. Military are typically for one year and are not required to be renewed.  The U.S. Military may terminate the contracts for convenience or in the event we were to fail to satisfy reliability requirements or for other reasons.  The number and frequency of routes is sensitive to changes in military priorities and U.S. defense budgets.. Our business could be negatively impacted by adverse audit findings by the U.S. Government.. Our U.S. Military contracts are subject to audit by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, internal controls and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  If an audit uncovers improprieties, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including termination of such contracts, forfeiture of profits, fines and suspension from doing business with the U.S. Military.. Our participation in the CRAF Program could adversely restrict our commercial business in times of national emergency.. Both of our air carriers participate in the U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet (\"CRAF\") Program, which permits the U.S. Department of Defense to utilize participants' aircraft during national emergencies when the need for military airlift exceeds the capability of military aircraft.. Proposed rules from the DOT, FAA and TSA could increase the Company's operating costs and reduce customer utilization of airfreight.. New FAA rules for Flightcrew Member Duty and Rest Requirements (FMDRR) for passenger airline operations became effective in January 2014.  The new rules apply to our operation of combi aircraft for the U.S military and impact the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments and modified duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors.  Failure to remain in compliance with these rules may subject us to fines or other enforcement action.. There are separate crew rest requirements applicable to all-cargo aircraft of the type operated by the Company.  The FAA has rejected, as have  the Courts, an attempt to apply the passenger airline operations to all cargo operations.  If such rest requirements and restrictions were imposed on our cargo operations, these rules could have a significant impact on the costs incurred by our airlines.  The airlines would attempt to pass such additional costs through to their customers in the form of price increases.  Customers, as a result, may seek to reduce their utilization of aircraft in favor of less expensive transportation alternatives.. The concentration of aircraft types and engines in the Company's airlines could adversely affect our operating and financial results.. The combined aircraft fleet is concentrated in two aircraft types.  If any of these aircraft types encounter technical difficulties that resulted in significant FAA airworthiness directives or grounding, our ability to lease the aircraft would be adversely impacted, as would our airlines' operations. The market growth in demand for the Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft types and configurations may be less than we anticipate.  Customers may develop preferences for the Airbus A300-600 and A330 aircraft or other mid-size aircraft types, instead of the Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft.. The cost of aircraft repairs and unexpected delays in the time required to complete aircraft maintenance could negatively affect our operating results.. Our aircraft provide ACMI services throughout the world, sometimes operating in remote regions.  Our aircraft may experience maintenance events in locations that do not have the necessary repair capabilities or are difficult to reach.  As a result, we may incur additional expenses and lose billable revenues that we would have otherwise earned.  Under certain customer agreements, we are required to provide a spare aircraft while scheduled maintenance is completed.  If delays occur in the completion of aircraft maintenance, we may incur additional expense to provide airlift capacity and forgo revenues.. Lessees of our aircraft may fail to make contractual payments or fail to maintain the aircraft as required.. Our financial results depend on our lease customers' ability to make lease payments and maintain the related aircraft.  Our customers' ability to make payments could be adversely impacted by changes to their financial liquidity, competitiveness, economic conditions and other factors.  A default of an aircraft lease by a customer could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows and result in the repossession of aircraft.. 14. While we often require leasing customers to pay monthly maintenance deposits, customers are normally responsible for maintaining our aircraft during the lease term.  Failure of a customer to perform required maintenance and maintain the appropriate records during the lease term could result in higher maintenance costs, a decrease in the value of the aircraft, a lengthy delay in or even our inability to place the aircraft in a subsequent lease, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third parties to modify aircraft and provide aircraft and engine maintenance.. We rely on certain third party aircraft modification service providers and aircraft and engine maintenance service providers that have expertise or resources that we do not have.  Third party service providers may seek to impose price increases that could negatively affect our competitiveness in the airline markets.  An unexpected termination or delay involving service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.  A delay in an aircraft modification could adversely impact our revenues and our ability to place the aircraft in the market.  We must manage third party service providers to meet schedules and turn-times and to control costs in order to remain competitive to our customers.. Delta TechOps, a division of Delta Airlines, Inc., is the primary engine maintenance provider for the Company's General Electric CF6 engines that power our fleet of Boeing 767 aircraft.  If Delta TechOps does not complete the refurbishment of our engines within the contractual turn-times or if we must replace Delta TechOps as the maintenance provider for some or all of the Company's CF6 engines, our operations and financial results may be adversely impacted.. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by disruptions of its information technology and communication systems.. Our businesses depend heavily on information technology and computerized systems to communicate and operate effectively.  The Company's systems and technologies, or those of third parties on which we rely, could fail or become unreliable due to equipment failures, software viruses, cyberattacks, natural disasters, power failures, telecommunication outages, or other causes.  Certain disruptions could prevent our airlines from flying as scheduled, possibly for an extended period of time, which could have a negative impact on our operating results and reliability.  We continually monitor the risks of disruption, take preventative measures, develop backup plans and maintain redundancy capabilities.  The measures we use may not prevent the causes of disruptions we could experience or help us recover failed systems quickly.. The costs of maintaining safeguards, recovery capabilities and preventive measures may continue to rise.  Further, the costs of recovering or replacing a failed system could be very expensive.. The costs of our aircraft maintenance facilities could negatively impact our financial results.. We lease and operate a 310,000 square foot aircraft maintenance facility and a 100,000 square foot component repair shop in Wilmington, Ohio.  Additionally, we lease and operate a 311,500 square foot, two-hangar aircraft maintenance complex in Tampa, Florida.  Accordingly, a large portion of the operating costs for our aircraft maintenance and conversion business are fixed.  As a result, we need to retain existing aircraft maintenance business levels to maintain a profitable operation.  The actual level of revenues may not be sufficient to cover our operating costs.  Additionally, revenues from aircraft maintenance can vary among periods due to the timing of scheduled maintenance events and the completion level of work during a period.. The Company could violate debt covenants.. The Senior Credit Agreement contains covenants including, among other requirements, limitations on certain additional indebtedness and guarantees of indebtedness.  The Senior Credit Agreement is collateralized by certain of the Company's Boeing 767 and 757 aircraft that are not collateralized under aircraft loans.  Under the terms of the Senior Credit Agreement, the Company is required to maintain aircraft collateral coverage equal to 125% of the outstanding balance of the term loan and the maximum capacity of the revolving credit facility or 150% of the outstanding balance of the term loan and the total funded revolving credit facility, whichever is less.  The Senior Credit Agreement stipulates events of default, including unspecified events that may have material adverse effects on the Company.  If an event of default occurs, the Company may be forced to repay, renegotiate or replace the Senior Credit Agreement and loans.  In such an event, the Company's cost of borrowings could increase, and our ability to modify and deploy aircraft could be limited as a result.. 15. Operating results may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates.. The Company enters into interest rate derivative instruments from time to time in conjunction with its debt levels.  The Company's Senior Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain derivative instruments for fluctuating interest rates for at least 50% of the outstanding balance of the new unsubordinated term loan.  We typically do not designate the derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes.  Future fluctuations in LIBOR interest rates will result in the recording of gains and losses on interest rate derivatives that the Company holds.. Under the Senior Credit Agreement, interest rates are adjusted quarterly based on the prevailing LIBOR or prime rates and a ratio of the Company's outstanding debt level to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses (\"EBITDA\").  At the Company's current debt-to-EBITDA ratio, the unsubordinated term loan and the revolving credit facility both bear a variable interest rate of 3.07%.  Additional debt or lower EBITDA may result in higher interest rates on the variable rate portion of the Company's debt.. The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement healthcare plans for certain eligible employees.  The Company's related pension expense, the plans' funded status and funding requirements are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  The plans' funded status and annual pension expense are recalculated at the beginning of each calendar year using the fair value of plan assets and market-based interest rates at that point in time, as well as assumptions for asset returns and other actuarial assumptions.  Future fluctuations in interest rates including the impact on asset returns, could result in the recording of additional expense for pension and other post-retirement healthcare plans.. The costs of insurance coverage or changes to our reserves for self-insured claims could affect our operating results and cash flows.. The Company is self-insured for certain claims related to workers' compensation, aircraft, automobile, general liability and employee healthcare.  We record a liability for reported claims and an estimate for incurred claims that have not yet been reported.  Accruals for these claims are estimated utilizing historical paid claims data and recent claims trends.  Changes in claim severity and frequency could impact our results of operations and cash flows.. The ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be further limited.. Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs.  Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. Changes in the ownership of the Company on the part of significant shareholders could limit our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income.  In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of significant stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years).. Strategic investments in other businesses may not result in the desired benefits.. We enter into joint venture and other business ownership agreements with the expectation that such investment will result in various benefits including revenue growth through geographic diversification and product diversification,  improved cash flows and better operating efficiencies.  Achieving the anticipated benefits from such agreements is subject to a number of challenges and uncertainties.  The expected benefits may be only partially realized or not at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  We may make additional capital contributions to these business.. We may need to reduce the carrying value of the Company's assets.. The Company owns a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and related equipment.  Additionally, the balance sheet reflects assets for income tax carryforwards and other deferred tax assets.  The removal of aircraft from service or continual losses from aircraft operations could require us to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those aircraft, related parts and equipment and record an impairment charge through earnings to reduce the carrying value.. 16. We have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions and equity investments.  If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results, it may be necessary to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, equity investments and related intangible assets.  Similarly, if we were to lose a key customer or one of our airlines were to lose its authority to operate, it could be necessary to record an impairment charge.. If the Company incurs operating losses or our estimates of expected future earnings indicate a decline, it may be necessary to reassess the need for a valuation allowance for some or all of the Company's net deferred tax assets.. We may be impacted by government requirements associated with transacting business in foreign jurisdictions.. The U.S and other governments have imposed trade and economic sanctions in certain geopolitical areas.  The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce and Treasury, as well as other government agencies have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") and other regulations.  In addition, the DOT, FAA and TSA may at times limit the ability of our airline subsidiaries to conduct flight operations in certain areas of the world.  Under such laws and regulations, we may be obliged to limit our business activities, we may incur costs for compliance programs and we may be subject to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance. In recent years, the U.S. government has increased their oversight and enforcement activities with respect to these laws and the relevant agencies may continue to increase these activities.. Penalties, fines and sanctions levied by governmental agencies or the costs of complying with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations.. The operations of the Company's subsidiaries are subject to complex aviation, transportation, security, environmental, labor, employment and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require our subsidiaries to maintain and comply with a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. Their inability to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or, in the case of DOT and FAA requirements, possible suspension or revocation of their authority to conduct operations.. The costs of maintaining our aircraft in compliance with government regulations could negatively affect our results of operations and require further investment in our aircraft fleet.. All aircraft in the Company's fleet were manufactured prior to 1998.  Manufacturer Service Bulletins and FAA regulations and FAA airworthiness directives issued under its \"Aging Aircraft\" program cause operators of such aged aircraft to be subject to additional inspections and modifications to address problems of corrosion and structural fatigue at specified times. The FAA may issue airworthiness directives that could require significant costly inspections and major modifications to such aircraft. The FAA may issue airworthiness directives that could limit the usability of certain aircraft types.  In 2012, the FAA issued an airworthiness directive that requires the replacement of the aft pressure bulkhead on Boeing 767-200 aircraft based on a certain number of landing cycles.  As a result, we expect that some the Company's Boeing 767-200 aircraft will be affected.  The cost of compliance is estimated to be approximately $1.0 million per aircraft over the next several years.. In addition, FAA regulations require that aircraft manufacturers establish limits on aircraft flight cycles to address issues involving aging, but still economically viable, aircraft, as described in Item 1 of this report, under \"Federal Aviation Administration.\"  These regulations may increase our maintenance costs and eventually limit the use of our aircraft.. The FAA and ICAO are in the process of developing programs to modernize air traffic control and management systems.  The FAA's program, Next Generation Air Transportation Systems, is an integrated system that requires updating aircraft navigation and communication equipment.  The FAA has mandated the replacement of current ground based radar systems with more accurate satellite based systems on our aircraft by 2020.  The ICAO began phasing in similar requirements for aircraft operating in Europe during 2015.  These programs may increase our costs and limit the use of our aircraft.  Aircraft not equipped with advanced communication systems may be restricted to certain airspace.. 17. Failure to maintain the operating certificates and authorities of our airlines would adversely affect our business.. The airline subsidiaries have the necessary authority to conduct flight operations pursuant to the economic authority issued by the DOT and the safety based authority issued by the FAA. The continued effectiveness of such authority is subject to their compliance with applicable statutes and DOT, FAA and TSA rules and regulations, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future.  The loss of such authority by an airline subsidiary could cause a default of covenants within the Senior Credit Agreement and would materially and adversely affect its airline operations, effectively eliminating the airline's ability to continue to provide air transportation services.. The Company may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential climate change.. The Company is subject to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and state and local governments regarding air quality and other matters. In part, because of the highly industrialized nature of many of the locations where the Company operates, there can be no assurance that we have discovered all environmental contamination or other matters for which the Company may be responsible.. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions. The European Commission has mandated the extension of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (\"ETS\") for GHG emissions to the airline industry.  Under the European Union ETS, all ABX and ATI flights that are wholly within the European Union are now covered by the ETS requirements, and each year we are required to submit emission allowances in an amount equal to the carbon dioxide emissions from such flights.  Exceedance of the airlines' emission allowances would require the airlines to purchase additional emission allowances on the open market.. Similarly, in 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organization (\"ICAO\") passed a resolution adopting the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (\"CORSIA\"), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020.  A pilot phase is scheduled to begin in 2021 in which countries may voluntarily participate, and full mandatory participation is scheduled to begin in 2027.  ICAO continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with CORSIA will increase our operating costs.. The U.S. Congress and certain states have also considered legislation regulating GHG emissions. In addition, even in the absence of such legislation, the EPA could regulate greenhouse GHG emissions, especially aircraft engine emissions.  In July 2016, the EPA, issued a finding that aircraft engine emissions cause or contribute to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health.  This finding is a regulatory prerequisite to the EPA's adoption of a new certificate standard for aircraft emissions.  However, the U.S. recently withdrew from the Paris climate accord, an agreement among 196 countries to reduce GHG emissions, and the effect of that withdrawal on future U.S. policy regarding GHG emissions, on CORSIA and on other GHG regulation is uncertain.. The cost to comply with potential new laws and regulations could be substantial for the Company. These costs could include an increase in the cost of fuel and capital costs associated with updating aircraft.  Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on the Company's cost structure or operating results.  Further, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and adverse publicity in the global marketplace about greenhouse gas emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce demand for our services."
