[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or ability to pay dividends in future periods or to meet our debt obligations.  The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or ability to pay dividends in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business. Risks Related to Our Operations. Risks affecting the airline industry may adversely affect our customers and have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. We operate as a supplier to airlines and are indirectly impacted by all the risks facing airlines today.  The ability of each lessee to perform its obligations under the relevant lease will depend primarily on the lessee's financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors beyond our control, including:. • passenger and air cargo demand;. • competition;. • passenger fare levels and air cargo rates;. • the continuing availability of government support, whether through subsidies, loans, guarantees, equity investments or otherwise;. • availability of financing and other circumstances affecting airline liquidity, including covenants in financings, terms imposed by credit card issuers, collateral posting requirements contained in fuel hedging contracts and the ability of airlines to make or refinance principal payments as they come due;. • geopolitical and other events, including war, acts or threats of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters;. • aircraft accidents;. • operating costs, including the price and availability of jet fuel, labor costs and insurance costs and coverages;. • restrictions in labor contracts and labor difficulties, including pilot shortages;. • economic conditions, including recession, financial system distress and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates or from which the lessee obtains financing;. • changing political conditions, including risk of rising protectionism, restrictions on immigration or imposition of new trade barriers;. • cyber risk, including information hacking, viruses and malware; and. • governmental regulation of, or affecting the air transportation business, including noise regulations, emissions regulations, climate change initiatives, and aircraft age limitations.. These factors, and others, may lead to defaults by our customers, or may delay or prevent aircraft deliveries or transitions, result in payment restructurings or other lease term restructurings, and may increase our costs from repossessions and reduce our revenues due to downtime or lower re-lease rates.. Volatile financial market conditions may adversely impact our liquidity, our access to capital and our cost of capital and may adversely impact the airline industry and the financial condition of our lessees.. The availability and pricing of capital in the commercial bank market and in the unsecured bond market remain susceptible to global events, including, for example, political changes in the U.S. and abroad, rising interest rates, a fluctuating dollar, the rate of international economic growth and implications from changes in oil prices.  If we need, but cannot obtain, adequate capital on satisfactory terms, or at all, as a result of negative conditions in the capital markets or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders could be materially adversely affected.  Additionally, such inability to obtain capital on satisfactory terms, or at all, could prevent us from pursuing attractive future growth opportunities.. 10. We bear the risk of re-leasing and selling our aircraft.. We bear the risk of re-leasing and selling or otherwise disposing of our aircraft in order to continue to generate income. In certain cases we commit to purchase aircraft that are not subject to lease and therefore are subject to lease placement risk.  Because only a portion of an aircraft's value is covered by contractual cash flows from an operating lease, we are exposed to the risk that the residual value of the aircraft will not be sufficient to permit us to fully recover or realize a gain on our investment in the aircraft and to the risk that we may have to record impairment charges.  Further, our ability to re-lease, lease or sell aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or without significant off-lease time and transition costs is likely to be adversely impacted by risks affecting the airline industry generally.. Other factors that may affect our ability to fully realize our investment in our aircraft and that may increase the likelihood of impairment charges include credit deterioration of a lessee, declines in rental rates, residual value risk, higher fuel prices which may reduce demand for older, less fuel efficient aircraft, additional environmental regulations, age restrictions, customer preferences and other factors that may effectively shorten the useful life of older aircraft.. We own and lease long-lived assets and have written down the value of some of our assets in prior years, and if market conditions worsen, or in the event of a customer default, we may be required to record further write-downs.. We test our assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts for such assets are not recoverable from their expected, undiscounted cash flows.  We also perform a fleet-wide recoverability assessment annually.  This recoverability assessment is a comparison of the carrying value of each aircraft to its undiscounted expected future cash flows.  We develop the assumptions used in the recoverability assessment, including those relating to current and future demand for each aircraft type, based on management's experience in the aircraft leasing industry as well as from information received from third party sources.. If anticipated aircraft lease cash flows or sales values worsen due to a decline in market conditions, or if a lessee defaults, we may have to reassess the carrying value of one or more of our aircraft.  As aircraft approach the end of their economic useful lives, their carrying values may be more susceptible to non-recoverable declines in value because such assets will have a shorter opportunity in which to benefit from a market recovery.  We monitor our fleet for aircraft that are more susceptible to failing our recoverability assessments within one year due to their sensitivity to changes in contractual cash flows, future cash flow estimates and aircraft residual or scrap values.  As of December 31, 2017, no aircraft were on our monitoring list.. Our financial reporting for lease revenue may be significantly impacted by a proposed new model for lease accounting.. On February 25, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 842, Leases (\"ASC 842\"), which replaced the existing guidance in ASC 840, Leases (\"ASC 840\").   The accounting for leases by lessors basically remained unchanged from the concepts that existed in ASC 840 accounting.  The FASB decided that lessors would be precluded from recognizing selling profit and revenue at lease commencement for any sales-type or direct finance lease that does not transfer control of the underlying asset to the lessee.  This requirement aligns the notion of what constitutes a sale in the lessor accounting guidance with that in the forthcoming revenue recognition standard, which evaluates whether a sale has occurred from the customer's perspective.  The standard will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.  The standard is to be applied on a \"modified retrospective\" basis with a proposed practical expedient.  We plan to adopt the standard on its required effective date of January 1, 2019 and are evaluating the transition method to use.  We are also evaluating the impact that ASC 842 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  Although we do not believe that the adoption of the standard will significantly impact our existing or potential lessees' economic decisions to lease aircraft, the ultimate impact on our potential lessees remains uncertain.. Our ability to obtain debt financing and our cost of debt financing is, in part, dependent upon our credit ratings and a credit downgrade could adversely impact our financial results.. Maintaining our credit ratings depends in part on strong financial results and in part on other factors, including the outlook of the ratings agencies on our sector and on the market generally.  A credit rating downgrade may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise debt financing in the unsecured bond market, or may result in higher pricing or less favorable terms under other financings.  Credit rating downgrades may make it more difficult and/or more costly to satisfy our funding requirements.  In addition, any future tightening or regulation of financial institutions (such as BASEL 4), including increasing capital reserves, could impact our ability to raise funds in the commercial bank loan market in the future.. 11. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Our aircraft are financed under long-term debt financings.  As these financings mature, we will be required to either refinance these instruments by entering into new financings, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets.. Departure of key officers could harm our business and financial results.. Our senior management's reputations and relationships with lessees, sellers, buyers and financiers of aircraft are a critical element of our business.  We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the aircraft leasing industry, and we believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in our industry.  The Company seeks to retain a pipeline of senior management personnel with superior talent to provide continuity of succession, including for the Chief Executive Officer position and other senior positions.  In addition, our Board of Directors is involved in succession planning, including review of short- and long-term succession plans for the Chief Executive Officer and other senior positions.  Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, including the Chief Executive Officer and his potential successors, and if we lose one or more of these individuals, our business could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends, or we may choose not to pay dividends, and the failure to pay or maintain dividends may adversely affect our share price.. On October 31, 2017, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.28 per common share, or an aggregate of approximately $22.0 million, which was paid on December 15, 2017 to holders of record on November 30, 2017.  This dividend may not be indicative of the amount of any future quarterly dividends.  Our ability to pay, maintain or increase cash dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including: our ability to comply with financial covenants in our financing documents that limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; the difficulty we may experience in raising, and the cost of, additional capital and our ability to finance our aircraft acquisition commitments; our ability to re-finance our long-term financings; our ability to negotiate and enforce favorable lease rates and other contractual terms; the level of demand for our aircraft in the lease placement or sales markets; the economic condition of the commercial aviation industry generally; the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees; unexpected or increased aircraft maintenance or other expenses; the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs; maintaining our credit ratings, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; legal restrictions on the payment of dividends, including a statutory dividend test and other limitations under Bermuda law; and general business conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.  Some of these factors are beyond our control.  In the future, we may choose to not pay dividends or may not be able to pay dividends, maintain our current level of dividends, or increase them over time.  The failure to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect our share price.. We are subject to risks related to our indebtedness that may limit our operational flexibility and our ability to compete with our competitors.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $4.3 billion, representing approximately 69.3% of our total capitalization.  Aircastle Limited has guaranteed most of this indebtedness and we are responsible on a full recourse basis for timely payment when due and compliance with covenants under the related debt documentation.  As a result of our substantial amount of indebtedness, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness, and our substantial amount of indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, reduce our flexibility in planning for or reaction to changes in the business environment or in our business or industry, and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business and compete with our competitors.. Our indebtedness subjects us to certain risks, including:. • 21% of our net book value serves as collateral for our secured indebtedness, and the terms of certain of our indebtedness require us to use proceeds from sales of aircraft, in part, to repay amounts outstanding under such indebtedness;. 12. • our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, including restrictive covenants contained therein, may result in additional interest being due or defaults that could result in the acceleration of the principal, and unpaid interest on, the defaulted debt, as well as the forfeiture of any aircraft pledged as collateral; and. • non-compliance with covenants prohibiting certain investments and other restricted payments, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our common shares, raise additional capital or refinance our existing debt, may reduce our operational flexibility and limit our ability to refinance or grow the business.. The provisions of our long-term financings require us to comply with financial and other covenants.  Our compliance with these ratios, tests and covenants depends upon, among other things, the timely receipt of lease payments from our lessees and upon our overall financial performance.. • Senior Notes. Our senior notes indentures impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities.  These restrictions limit our ability to, or in certain cases prohibit us from, incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness, refinancing our existing indebtedness, paying dividends, repurchasing our common shares, making other restricted payments, making certain investments or entering into joint ventures and a cross-default to certain other financings of the Company.. • ECA Financings. Our ECA Financings contain a $500 million minimum net worth covenant and also contain, among other customary provisions, a material adverse change default and a cross-default to certain other financings of the Company.. • Bank Financings. Our secured bank financings contain, among other customary provisions, a $500 million minimum net worth covenant, a cross-default to certain other financings of the Company, and for one portfolio financing, a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.15.. • Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities and Loan.  Our unsecured revolving credit facilities/loan contain $750 million minimum net worth covenants, minimum unencumbered asset ratios, minimum interest coverage ratios and cross-defaults to certain other financings of the Company.. The terms of our financings also restrict our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or engage in mergers, amalgamations or consolidations among our subsidiary companies or between a subsidiary company and a third party or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets.. We are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign jurisdictions.. The international nature of our business exposes us to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other governments.  The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce and Treasury, as well as other agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and other federal statutes, sanctions and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\") and, increasingly, similar or more restrictive foreign laws, rules and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act (\"UKBA\"), which may also apply to us.  By virtue of these laws and regulations, and under laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, we may be obliged to limit our business activities, we may incur costs for compliance programs and we may be subject to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance.  In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments have increased their oversight and enforcement activities with respect to these laws, and we expect the relevant agencies to continue to increase these activities.. We have compliance policies and training programs in place for our employees with respect to FCPA, OFAC Regulations, UKBA and similar laws, but there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of FCPA, OFAC Regulations, UKBA and other laws, sanctions or regulations may result in severe criminal or civil penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities.. General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") takes effect on May 25, 2018, requiring us to protect the privacy of certain personal data of EU citizens.  While we expect to implement processes and controls to timely comply with GDPR requirements, the manner in which the EU will interpret and enforce certain provisions remains unclear and we could incur significant fines of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, individual damages and reputational risks if our controls and processes are ineffective and we fail to comply.. We are dependent upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration.. We are dependent upon information technology systems to manage, process, store and transmit information associated with our operations, which may include proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our. 13. customers, suppliers and employees.  Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, employee error, natural disasters and defects in design.  Damage, disruption, or failure of one or more information technology systems may result in interruptions to our operations in the interim or may require a significant investment to fix or replace them or may result in significant damage to our reputation.  Although various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems and network disruptions, our resources and technical sophistication may not be adequate to prevent all types of cyber-attacks that could lead to the payment of fraudulent claims, loss of sensitive information, including our own proprietary information or that of our customers, suppliers and employees, and could harm our reputation and result in lost revenues and additional costs and potential liabilities.. Risks Related to Our Aviation Assets. The variability of supply and demand for aircraft could depress lease rates for our aircraft, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects.. The aircraft leasing and sales industry has experienced periods of aircraft oversupply and undersupply.  The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft in the market is likely to depress aircraft lease rates for, and the value of, that type of aircraft.. The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are not under our control, including:. • passenger and air cargo demand;. • operating costs, including fuel costs, and general economic conditions affecting our lessees' operations;. • geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism;. • outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters;. • governmental regulation;. • interest rates;. • foreign exchange rates;. • tariffs and other restrictions on trade;. • airline restructurings and bankruptcies;. • the availability of credit;. • changes in control of, or restructurings of, other aircraft leasing companies;. • manufacturer production levels and technological innovation;. • discounting by manufacturers on aircraft types nearing end of production;. • climate change initiatives, technological change, aircraft noise and emissions regulations, aircraft age limits and other factors leading to reduced demand for, early retirement or obsolescence of aircraft models;. • manufacturers merging, exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types;. • new-entrant manufacturers producing additional aircraft models, or existing manufacturers producing newly engined aircraft models or new aircraft models, in competition with existing aircraft models;. • reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and. • airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints.. These and other factors may produce sharp decreases or increases in aircraft values and lease rates, which would impact our cost of acquiring aircraft and our ability to grow the business, or which may result in lease defaults and also prevent the aircraft from being re-leased or sold on favorable terms.  This could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects.. Other factors that increase the risk of decline in aircraft value and lease rates could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects.. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, other factors that may affect the value and lease rates of our aircraft include:. • the age of the aircraft;. 14. • the particular maintenance and operating history of the airframe and engines;. • the number of operators using that type of aircraft;. • whether the aircraft is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to us;. • applicable airworthiness directives or manufacturer's service bulletins that have not yet been performed to the aircraft;. • grounding orders or other regulatory action that could prevent or limit utilization of our aircraft;. • any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; and. • compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with those desired by the operators of other aircraft of that type.. Any decrease in the values of and lease rates for commercial aircraft which may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects.. The advent of superior aircraft technology and higher production levels could cause our existing aircraft portfolio to become outdated and therefore less desirable.. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft, including the Boeing 787, the Airbus A350, the Bombardier C Series and re-engined and/or replacement types for the Boeing 737, Boeing 777, Airbus A320, Airbus A330 and Embraer E-Jet families of aircraft, certain aircraft in our existing aircraft portfolio may become less desirable to potential lessees or purchasers. This next generation of aircraft is expected to deliver improved fuel consumption and reduced noise and emissions with lower operating costs compared to current-technology aircraft.  The Boeing 787 is currently in production while the Boeing 777X is expected to enter service in 2020.  The first variant of the Airbus A350 entered service in December 2014.  The Airbus A320neo and the Bombardier C Series entered service in 2016.  The Boeing 737 MAX family of aircraft entered service in 2017.  The first deliveries for the Airbus A330neo and Embraer's second generation of E-Jets, the E2 family, are expected to begin in 2018.  Further, Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd., Mitsubishi and Russia's United Aircraft Corporation are developing aircraft models that will compete with the Airbus A319, the Boeing 737 and the Embraer E-Jet.. The introduction of these new models and the potential resulting overcapacity in aircraft supply, could adversely affect the residual values and the lease rates for our aircraft, our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or result in us recording future impairment charges.. The effects of energy, emissions, and noise regulations and policies may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us and may limit the market for certain aircraft in our portfolio.. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant aircraft is registered and operated.  Jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and ICAO have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which applies to engines manufactured or certified on or after January 1, 2006. Currently, U.S. regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards applicable to engines manufactured or certified prior to January 1, 2006, but the E.U. has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards. These regulations could limit the economic life of the aircraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our ability to lease or sell these non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant.. In addition to noise restrictions, the U.S. and other jurisdictions have imposed limits on aircraft engine emissions, such as NOx, CO and CO2, consistent with current ICAO standards. European countries have relatively strict environmental regulations that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity.  The E.U. has included the aviation sector in its emissions trading scheme (\"ETS\"), and has attempted to apply the ETS to flights outside of European airspace.  This effort has been opposed by the U.S. and other countries. The E.U. suspended the ETS for flights from or to non- European countries in 2013, and in December 2017 further extended that suspension until December 2023. Finally, ICAO has also adopted a resolution developing a global market-based measure to control CO2 emission from international aviation,. 15. which begins in 2021.  As noted above, the U.S. EPA announced in 2016 its intent to promulgate and adopt a rule to incorporate these new standards into domestic law, although that decision is now under review.. Additionally, in 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global GHG emissions at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate. The agreement does not expressly reference aviation, but if the agreement is implemented in the United States and other countries there could be an adverse direct or indirect effect on the aviation industry as a whole.  On June 1, 2017 the United States announced that it intends to withdraw from the 2015 agreement.  That withdrawal cannot be given officially until November 4, 2019 and would be effective November 4, 2020.. Over time, it is possible that governments will adopt additional regulatory requirements and/or market-based policies that are intended to reduce energy usage, emissions, and noise levels from aircraft. Such initiatives may be based on concerns regarding climate change, energy security, public health, local impacts, or other factors, and may also impact the global market for certain aircraft and cause behavioral shifts that result in decreased demand for air travel. These concerns could also result in greater limitations on the operation of our fleet, particularly aircraft equipped with older technology engines.. Compliance with current or future regulations, taxes or duties could cause our lessees to incur higher costs and lead to higher ticket prices, which could mean lower demand for travel and adverse impacts on the financial condition of our lessees. Such compliance may also affect our lessees' ability to make rental and other lease payments and limit the market for aircraft in our portfolio, which could have other negative effects on our financial position.. The older age, or older technology, of some of our aircraft may expose us to higher than anticipated maintenance related expenses.. In general, the costs of operating an aircraft, including maintenance expenditures, increase with the age of the aircraft.  Additionally, older aircraft typically are less fuel-efficient than newer aircraft and may be more difficult to re-lease or sell, particularly if, due to increasing production rates by aircraft manufacturers or airline insolvencies or other distress, older aircraft are competing with newer aircraft in the lease or sale market.  Expenses like fuel, aging aircraft inspections, maintenance or modification programs and related airworthiness directives could make the operation of older aircraft less economically feasible and may result in increased lessee defaults.  We may also incur some of these increased maintenance expenses and regulatory costs upon acquisition or re-leasing of our aircraft.  Re-leasing larger wide-body aircraft may result in higher reinvestment and maintenance expenditures than re-leasing narrow-body aircraft.. The concentration of aircraft types in our aircraft portfolio could lead to adverse effects on our business and financial results should any difficulties specific to these particular types of aircraft occur.. Our owned aircraft portfolio is concentrated in certain aircraft types.  Should any of these aircraft types (or other types we acquire in the future) or aircraft manufacturers encounter technical, financial or other difficulties, it would cause a decrease in value of these aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft on favorable terms or at all, or a potential grounding of these aircraft, which may adversely impact our financial results, to the extent the affected aircraft types comprise a significant percentage of our aircraft portfolio.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities in aviation assets and for the leasing and sale of aircraft.. We compete with other operating lessors, airlines, aircraft manufacturers, financial institutions, aircraft brokers and other investors with respect to aircraft acquisitions, leasing and sales.  The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive and may be divided into three basic activities: (i) aircraft acquisition; (ii) leasing or re-leasing of aircraft; and (iii) aircraft sales.  Competition varies among these three basic activities.. A number of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.  Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us.  In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, lower investment return expectations or different risk or residual value assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships, bid more aggressively on aviation assets available for sale and offer lower lease rates or sales prices than we can. Some of our competitors may provide financial services, maintenance services or other inducements to potential lessees or buyers that we cannot provide.  As a result of competitive pressures, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives.  We continue to see lessors and airlines starting to manage the transition from current to. 16. newer technology and younger aircraft.  Additionally, the barriers to entry in the aircraft acquisition and leasing market are comparatively low, and new entrants with private equity, hedge fund, Asian bank or other funding sources appear from time to time.  We may not be able to compete effectively against present and future competitors in the aircraft acquisition, leasing or sales market.. Risks Related to our Order of New Embraer E-Jet E2 Aircraft. We have lease commitments for three of the 25 Embraer E-Jet E2 aircraft that we contracted to purchase from Embraer and are scheduled for delivery between the second quarter of 2019 and 2021.  We do not yet have lease commitments for the remaining deliveries nor have we put financing in place for any of the Embraer E-Jet E2 aircraft deliveries.  Our ability to lease these aircraft on favorable terms, if at all, may be adversely affected by desirability of this new aircraft type and risks to the commercial airline industry generally.  If we are unable to obtain commitments for the remaining deliveries or the necessary financing, if needed, or otherwise satisfy our contractual obligations to Embraer, we will be subject to several potential risks, including:. • forfeiting advance deposits and progress payments to Embraer, as well as incurring certain significant costs related to these commitments such as contractual damages and legal, accounting and financial advisory expenses;. • defaulting on any future lease commitments we may have entered into with respect to these aircraft, which could result in monetary damages and strained relationships with lessees;. •failing to realize the benefits of purchasing and leasing such aircraft; and. • risking harm to our business reputation, which would make it more difficult to purchase and lease aircraft in the future on agreeable terms, if at all.. In addition, the Embraer E-Jet E2 is a new aircraft variant under development and not yet certified; however, it is now in production.  Embraer expects to certify the aircraft in time for the first anticipated delivery in 2018.  The Embraer E-Jet E2 aircraft will incorporate a modified version of the recently introduced Pratt & Whitney geared turbofan engine, which is now in production.  Airframe and engine manufacturers have occasionally experienced delays and technical difficulties in bringing new aircraft and engine types to market.  If any aircraft for which we have made future lease commitments is delayed or if Embraer is unable to produce the aircraft in compliance with the performance specifications, some or all of our affected lessees might be able to terminate their leases with respect to such aircraft.  Our purchase agreement with Embraer and the anticipated future leases for these aircraft contain certain cancellation rights related to delays in delivery.  Any such termination could strain our relations with those lessees going forward.  Lastly, we will rely on Embraer to return any advance deposits and progress payments if they are unable to meet their obligations to us, and we may not be able to recover such amounts if Embraer defaults or becomes insolvent.  In November 2017, Airbus and Bombardier announced a partnership for the C-series aircraft, which competes with the E-Jet E2, and Boeing and Embraer entered into discussions about a possible combination.  Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our financial results and operations.. Risks Related to Our Leases. If lessees are unable to fund their maintenance obligations on our aircraft, we may incur increased costs at the conclusion of the applicable lease.. The standards of maintenance observed by the various lessees and the condition of the aircraft at the time of lease or sale may affect the future values and rental rates for our aircraft.. Under our leases, the relevant lessee is generally responsible for maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft, including, without limitation, operational, maintenance, and registration requirements and airworthiness directives, although in certain cases we may agree to share certain of these  costs.  Failure of a lessee to perform required aircraft maintenance or required airworthiness directives could result in a decrease in value of such aircraft, an adverse effect on our ability to lease the aircraft at favorable rates or at all, or a potential grounding of such aircraft, and will likely require us to incur increased maintenance and modification costs upon the expiration or earlier termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore such aircraft to an acceptable condition.  If any of our aircraft are not subject to a lease, we would be required to bear the entire cost of maintaining that aircraft and performing any required airworthiness directives.. Certain of our leases provide that the lessee is required to make periodic payments to us during the lease term in order to provide cash reserves for the major maintenance. In these leases there is an associated liability for us to reimburse the. 17. lessee after such maintenance is performed.  A substantial number of our leases do not provide for any periodic maintenance reserve payments to be made to us.  Typically, these lessees are required to make payments at the end of the lease term.   However, in the event such lessees default, the value of the aircraft could be negatively affected by the maintenance condition and we may be required to fund the entire cost of performing major maintenance on the relevant aircraft without, in either case, having received compensating maintenance payments from these lessees.. Even if we receive maintenance payments, these payments may not cover the entire expense of the scheduled maintenance they are intended to fund. In addition, maintenance payments typically cover only certain scheduled maintenance requirements and do not cover all required maintenance and all scheduled maintenance.  As a result, we may incur unanticipated or significant costs at the conclusion of a lease.. Failure to pay certain potential additional operating costs could result in the grounding or arrest of our aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of our aircraft.. As in the case of maintenance costs, we may incur other operational costs upon a lessee default or where the terms of the lease require us to pay a portion of those costs.  Such costs include:. • the costs of casualty, liability and political risk insurance and the liability costs or losses when insurance coverage has not been or cannot be obtained as required, or is insufficient in amount or scope;. • the costs of licensing, exporting or importing an aircraft, airport charges, customs duties, air navigation charges, landing fees and similar governmental or quasi-governmental impositions, which can be substantial;. • penalties and costs associated with the failure of lessees to keep aircraft registered under all appropriate local requirements or obtain required governmental licenses, consents and approvals; and. • carbon taxes or other fees, taxes or costs imposed under emissions limitations, climate change regulations or other initiatives.. The failure to pay certain of these costs can result in liens on the aircraft.  The failure to register the aircraft can result in a loss of insurance.  These matters could result in the grounding or arrest of the aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of the aircraft until the problem is cured.. Our lessees may have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their respective indemnity obligations, which could result in us not being covered for claims asserted against us.. By virtue of holding title to the aircraft, lessors may be held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of aircraft or may be held liable for those losses based on other legal theories.  Liability may be placed on an aircraft lessor in certain jurisdictions around the world even under circumstances in which the lessor is not directly controlling the operation of the relevant aircraft.. Lessees are required under our leases to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable.  Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and hull all risk and hull war risk insurance on the aircraft at agreed upon levels.  However, they are not generally required to maintain political risk insurance.  Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events.  At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general.  As a result, the amount of such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is commercially available at any time may be below the amount stipulated in our leases.. Our lessees' insurance, including any available governmental supplemental coverage, may not be sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us.  Any inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations will reduce the proceeds that would be received by us upon an event of loss under the respective leases or upon a claim under the relevant liability insurance.. Failure to obtain certain required licenses and approvals could negatively affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft.. A number of our lessees must obtain licenses, consents or approvals in order to import or operate the aircraft or comply with the leases.  These include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, export or deregistration of the aircraft.  Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice. 18. may increase such requirements and a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn.  Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming.  Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft.. Due to the fact that many of our lessees operate in emerging markets, we are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with competing in such markets.. Emerging markets are countries which have less developed economies that are more vulnerable to economic and political problems, such as significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest and currency exchange rates, civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets, unfavorable legal systems, change in law regarding recognition of contracts or ownership rights, changes in governments or government policy and the imposition of taxes or other charges by governments.  The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting instability may adversely affect our ownership interest in an aircraft or the ability of lessees which operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations and these lessees may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed economies.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, 51 of our lessees, which operated 143 aircraft and generated 70% of our lease rental revenue, are domiciled or habitually based in emerging markets.. Risks Related to Our Lessees. Lessee defaults could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a general matter, airlines with weak capital structures are more likely than well-capitalized airlines to seek operating leases, and, at any point in time, investors should expect a varying number of lessees and sub-lessees to experience payment difficulties.  As a result of their weak financial condition and lack of liquidity, a portion of lessees over time may be significantly in arrears in their rental or maintenance payments.  This is likely to be the case in the future and with other lessees and sub-lessees of our aircraft as well, particularly in a difficult economic or operating environment.  These liquidity issues will be more likely to lead to airline failures in the context of financial system distress, volatile fuel prices, and economic slowdown, with additional liquidity being more difficult and expensive to source.  Given the size of our aircraft portfolio, we expect that from time to time some lessees will be slow in making, or will fail to make, their payments in full under their leases.. We may not correctly assess the credit risk of each lessee or may not be in a position to charge risk-adjusted lease rates, and lessees may not be able to continue to perform their financial and other obligations under our leases in the future.  A delayed, reduced or missed rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or to comply with debt service coverage or interest coverage ratios.  A default, delay or deferral of payments from a lessee where we have a significant exposure or concentration risk could have a materially adverse impact on our revenue and cash flows.  While we may experience some level of delinquency under our leases, default levels may increase over time, particularly as our aircraft portfolio ages and if economic conditions deteriorate.  A lessee may experience periodic difficulties that are not financial in nature, which could impair its performance of maintenance obligations under the leases.  These difficulties may include the failure to perform required aircraft maintenance and labor-management disagreements or disputes.. In the event that a lessee defaults under a lease, any security deposit paid or letter of credit provided by the lessee may not be sufficient to cover the lessee's outstanding or unpaid lease obligations and required maintenance and transition expenses.. If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases with those lessees, this could result in less favorable leases and in significant reductions in our cash flow or adversely affect our financial results.. When a lessee is late in making payments, fails to make payments in full or in part under the lease or has otherwise advised us that it will in the future fail to make payments in full or in part under the lease, we may elect to or be required to restructure the lease.  Restructuring may involve anything from a simple rescheduling of payments to the termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past due amounts.  If requests for payment restructuring or rescheduling are made and granted, reduced or deferred rental payments may be payable over all or some part of the remaining term of the lease, although the terms of any revised payment schedules may be unfavorable and such payments may not be made.  We may be unable to agree upon acceptable terms for any requested restructurings and as a result may be forced to exercise our remedies under those leases.  If we, in the exercise of our remedies, repossess the aircraft, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft promptly at favorable rates, or at all.. 19. The terms and conditions of payment restructurings or reschedulings, particularly involving lessees where we have significant exposure or concentration risk, may result in significant reductions of rental payments, which may adversely affect our cash flows or our financial results.. Significant costs resulting from lease defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Although we have the right to repossess the aircraft and to exercise other remedies upon a lessee default, repossession of an aircraft after a lessee default would lead to significantly increased costs for us.  Those costs include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings, particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy, to obtain possession and/or de-registration of the aircraft and flight and export permissions.  Delays resulting from any of these proceedings would also increase the period of time during which the relevant aircraft is not generating revenue.  In addition, we may incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to incur or pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft in suitable condition for re-lease or sale and we may be required to pay off liens, claims, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft for re-lease or sale.  We may also incur maintenance, storage or other costs while we have physical possession of the aircraft.. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default and any termination of the lease and the repossession of the related aircraft. Our rights upon a lessee default vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction, including the need to obtain a court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for de-registration or re-export of the aircraft. When a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions will give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or will entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft without paying lease rentals or without performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. Certain of our lessees are owned in whole or in part by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess the relevant aircraft.  Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing or selling the affected aircraft.. If we repossess an aircraft, we will not necessarily be able to export or de-register and profitably redeploy the aircraft. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist de-registration. Significant costs may also be incurred in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft and obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for the aircraft.  A default and exercise of remedies involving a lessee where we have a significant exposure or concentration risk could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and cash flows.. Adverse currency movements could negatively affect our lessees' ability to honor the terms of their leases and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of our lessees are exposed to currency risk due to the fact that they earn revenues in their local currencies while a significant portion of their liabilities and expenses, including fuel, debt service, and lease payments are denominated in U.S. dollars.  In the case of a devaluation of the local currency, our lessees may not be able to increase revenue sufficiently to offset the impact of exchange rates on these expenses.  This is particularly true for non-U.S. airlines whose operations are primarily domestic.  This difference is magnified in the event of an appreciating U.S. dollar.  Currency volatility, particularly in emerging market countries, could impact the ability of some of our customers to meet their contractual obligations in a timely manner. Shifts in foreign exchange rates can be significant, are difficult to predict, and can occur quickly.. Airline reorganizations could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. As a result of economic conditions, significant volatility in oil prices and financial markets distress, airlines may be forced to reorganize. Historically, airlines involved in reorganizations have undertaken substantial fare discounting to maintain cash flows and to encourage continued customer loyalty. Such fare discounting has in the past led to lower profitability for all airlines.  Bankruptcies and reduced demand may lead to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft and negotiated reductions in aircraft lease rental rates, with the effect of depressing aircraft market values.  Additional grounded aircraft and lower market values would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates comparable to the then current market conditions, which collectively. 20. would have an adverse effect on our financial results.  We may not recover any of our claims or damages against an airline under bankruptcy or insolvency protection.. If our lessees fail to appropriately discharge aircraft liens, we might find it necessary to pay such claims.. In the normal course of business, liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges (including charges imposed by Eurocontrol), landing charges, crew wages, repairer's charges, salvage or other liens, are likely, depending on the jurisdiction, to attach to the aircraft.  These liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for certain types of liens (particularly \"fleet liens\"), exceed the value of the relevant aircraft.  Although the financial obligations relating to these liens are the responsibility of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, these liens may attach to our aircraft and ultimately become our responsibility.  Until these liens are discharged, we may be unable to repossess, re-lease or sell the aircraft or unable to avoid detention or forfeiture of the aircraft.. Our lessees may not comply with their obligations under their respective leases to discharge liens arising during the terms of their leases, whether or not due to financial difficulties.  If they do not do so, we may, in some cases, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by any liens in order to repossess the aircraft.. Risks associated with the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions could harm our business or financial results.. Our business is sensitive to local economic and political conditions that can influence the performance of lessees located in a particular region.. European Concentration. Thirty-three lessees in Europe accounted for 92 aircraft, totaling 32% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.  Commercial airlines in Europe continue to face increased competitive pressures due to the expansion of low cost carriers, industry consolidation and airlines in the Middle East.. Asian Concentration. Twenty-three lessees in Asia accounted for 59 aircraft totaling, 30% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.  Growth in most of Asia has been strong, driven in large part by emerging economies. Asian airlines continue to face competition from new entrants and the growth of low cost carriers in the region.  There is also risk of oversupply in the future driven by large outstanding order books of some Asian airlines.  Eight lessees in southeast Asia accounted for 25 aircraft, totaling 15% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.. North American Concentration. Ten lessees in North America accounted for 32 aircraft, totaling 10% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.  Consolidation among major airlines in the U.S. has helped drive capacity discipline and pricing power.. South American Concentration. Seven lessees in South America accounted for 25 aircraft, totaling 19% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.  Two lessees in Brazil accounted for fourteen aircraft, totaling 8% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.. Middle East and African Concentration. Eight lessees in the Middle East and Africa accounted for fifteen aircraft totaling 9% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2017.  Middle Eastern lessees, particularly Gulf-based carriers, have a large number of aircraft on order to capitalize on the region's favorable geographic position as an East-West transfer hub.. Risks Related to the Aviation Industry. Fuel prices significantly impact the profitability of the airline industry.  If fuel prices rise in the future, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects.. 21. Fuel costs represent a major expense to airlines.  Fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency/exchange rates.  As a result, fuel costs are not within the control of lessees and significant changes would materially affect their operating results.. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines may be unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing fares in a manner that fully compensates for the costs incurred. Higher and more volatile fuel prices may also have an impact on consumer confidence and spending, and thus may adversely impact demand for air transportation. In addition, airlines may not be able to successfully manage their exposure to fuel price fluctuations.  If fuel prices increase due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities, rebellion or political instability, natural disasters or for any other reason, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and/or generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on their financial condition and liquidity.  Fuel cost volatility may contribute to the reluctance of airlines to make future commitments to leased aircraft and reduce the demand for lease aircraft.  Consequently, these conditions may: (i) affect our lessees' ability to make rental and other lease payments; (ii) result in lease restructurings and/or aircraft repossessions; (iii) increase our costs of re-leasing or selling our aircraft; or (iv) impair our ability to re-lease or sell our aircraft on a timely basis at favorable rates or terms, or at all.. If the effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions adversely impact the financial condition of the airlines, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations.. War, armed hostilities or terrorist attacks, or the fear of such events, could decrease demand for air travel or increase the operating costs of our customers.  Terrorist incidents, the situations in the Middle East and other international tensions, such as with North Korea, may lead to regional or broader international instability.   Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, large protests or government instability, or the fear of such events, could further negatively impact the airline industry and may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates and may lead to lease restructurings or aircraft repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results.. Terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions have negatively affected the airline industry, and concerns about geopolitical conditions and further terrorist attacks could continue to negatively affect airlines (including our lessees) for the foreseeable future, depending upon various factors, including: (i) higher costs to the airlines due to the increased security measures; (ii) decreased passenger demand and revenue due to safety concerns or the inconvenience of additional security measures; (iii) the price and availability of jet fuel; (iv) higher financing costs and difficulty in raising the desired amount of proceeds on favorable terms, or at all; (v) the significantly higher costs of aircraft insurance coverage for future claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available; (vi) the ability of airlines to reduce their operating costs and conserve financial resources, taking into account the increased costs incurred as a consequence of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions, including those referred to above; and (vii) special charges recognized by some airlines, such as those related to the impairment of aircraft and other long lived assets stemming from the above conditions.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes resulting from the United Kingdom's (\"U.K.\") possible exit from the E.U. could have an adverse effect on our business.. In June 2016, voters in the U.K. approved a referendum to exit from the E.U., known as Brexit.  The effects of Brexit on us will depend on the resulting agreements regarding trade and travel made between the U.K. and the E.U.. Brexit could result in adverse consequences, such as instability in financial markets, deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse impact to air travel and the air freight market.  These impacts may negatively impact the airline and finance industries and may have an adverse effect on our ability to borrow, the financial condition of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates and may lead to lease restructurings or aircraft repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results.. Epidemic diseases, severe weather conditions, natural disasters or their perceived effects may negatively impact the airline industry and our lessees' ability to meet their lease payment obligations to us.. If an outbreak of epidemic diseases were to occur, numerous responses, including travel restrictions, might be necessary to combat the spread of the disease.  Even if restrictions are not implemented, passengers may voluntarily choose to reduce travel.  There have been several outbreaks of epidemic diseases which have spread to other parts of the world, although their impact was relatively limited.  Additional outbreaks of epidemic diseases, or the fear of such events, could result in travel bans or could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  Similarly, demand for air travel or the inability of airlines to. 22. operate to or from certain regions due to severe weather conditions or natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, could have an adverse effect on our lessees' ability to their lease payment obligations to us, which could negatively impact our financial results.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest.. As of February 8, 2018, Marubeni owns 21,605,347 shares, or 27.5% of our common shares.  Although the Shareholder Agreement, dated as of June 6, 2013, among us, Marubeni and a subsidiary of Marubeni (as amended and restated from time to time, the \"Shareholder Agreement\"), imposes certain restrictions on Marubeni's and its affiliates' ability to make additional acquisitions of our common shares, Marubeni, nonetheless, may be able to influence fundamental corporate matters and transactions, including the election of directors; mergers or amalgamations (subject to prior board approval); consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; in certain circumstances, the amendment of our bye-laws; and our winding up and dissolution.  This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders.  The interests of Marubeni may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders.  This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company.  Also, Marubeni may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other shareholders or adversely affect us or our other shareholders.  In addition, under the Shareholder Agreement, based on the current ownership of our common shares by Marubeni and the current size of our Board of Directors, Marubeni is entitled to designate three directors for election to our Board of Directors.  As a result of these or other factors, the market price of our common shares could decline or shareholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common shares upon a change in control.  In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with a significant shareholder.. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations.. We are a holding company with no material direct operations.  Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries.  As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders.  Although there are currently no material legal restrictions on our operating subsidiaries ability to distribute assets to us, legal restrictions, including governmental regulations and contractual obligations, could restrict or impair our operating subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make loan or other distributions to us.  Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions.. We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for securityholders to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.. We are a Bermuda exempted company and, as such, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws.  The rights of securityholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of securityholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions.  A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States.  As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws.  Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions.. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors.. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors.  The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director.  This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.. 23. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors.  These provisions include:. • provisions providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. • provisions regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors and amalgamations to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 66% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution;. • provisions in our bye-laws dealing with the removal of directors and corporate opportunity to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution;. • provisions providing for the removal of directors by a resolution, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution;. • provisions providing for our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue such preference shares without shareholder approval;. • provisions providing for advance notice requirements by shareholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and. • no provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors; all the directors standing for election may be elected by our shareholders by a plurality of votes cast at a duly convened annual general meeting, the quorum for which is two or more persons present in person or by proxy at the start of the meeting and representing in excess of 50% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote at the meeting.. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and/or our Board of Directors.  Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so.  These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and Board of Directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium.. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may require certain of our non-U.S. shareholders to sell their shares to us or to a third party.. Our bye-laws provide that if our Board of Directors determines that we or any of our subsidiaries do not meet, or in the absence of repurchases of shares will fail to meet, the ownership requirements of a limitation on benefits article of any bilateral income tax treaty with the U.S. applicable to us, and that such tax treaty would provide material benefits to us or any of our subsidiaries, we generally have the right, but not the obligation, to repurchase, at fair market value (as determined pursuant to the method set forth in our bye-laws), common shares from any shareholder who beneficially owns more than 5% of our issued and outstanding common shares and who fails to demonstrate to our satisfaction that such shareholder is either a U.S. citizen or a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other contracting state of any applicable tax treaty with the U.S. (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty).. We will have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase all or a part of the shares held by such shareholder (to the extent the Board of Directors, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, determines it is necessary to avoid or cure adverse consequences), provided that the Board of Directors will use its reasonable efforts to exercise this option equitably among similarly situated shareholders (to the extent feasible under the circumstances).. Instead of exercising the repurchase right described above, we will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the transfer to, and procure the purchase by, any U.S. citizen or a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other contracting state of the applicable tax treaty (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty) of the number of issued and outstanding common shares beneficially owned by any shareholder that are otherwise subject to repurchase under our bye-laws as described above, at fair market value (as determined in the good faith discretion of our Board of Directors).. 24. Our joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our joint ventures involve significant risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including:. • we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment or the joint ventures may divert management's attention from our business;. • our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments;. • our joint venture partners might fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner; and. • our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues, particularly if aircraft owned by the joint ventures are being marketed for lease or sale at a time when the Company also has comparable aircraft available for lease or sale.. As of February 8, 2018, Teachers' owns 10.0% of our outstanding common shares.. Risks Related to Our Common Shares. The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders.. If the market price of our common shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above their purchase price.  The market price or trading volume of our common shares could be highly volatile and may decline significantly in the future in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • failure to meet any earnings estimates;. • actual or perceived reduction in our growth or expected future growth;. • actual or anticipated accounting issues;. • publication of research reports about us, other aircraft lessors or the aviation industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or the decision to suspend or terminate coverage in the future;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • increased volatility in the capital markets and more limited or no access to debt financing, which may result in an increased cost of, or less favorable terms for, debt financing or may result in sales to satisfy collateral calls or other pressure on holders to sell our shares;. • redemptions, or similar events affecting funds or other investors holding our shares, which may result in large block trades that could significantly impact the price of our common shares;. • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preference or common shares we may issue in the future;. • changes in or elimination of our dividend;. • actions by shareholders;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • announcements by us, our competitors or our suppliers of significant contracts, acquisitions, disposals, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the aviation industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and. • general market, political and economic conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our lessees are located.. In addition, the equity markets in general have frequently experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets.  Changes in economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or globally could also impact our ability to grow profitably.  These broad market. 25. and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our business or operating performance.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company.  Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future additional debt, which would be senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and additional equity securities, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our then current common shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividends and liquidation distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring debt or issuing additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or loans and series of preference shares or common shares.  Upon liquidation, holders of our debt investments and preference shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares.  Additional equity offerings would dilute the holdings of our then current common shareholders and could reduce the market price of our common shares, or both.  Preference shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments.  Restrictive provisions in our debt and/or preference shares could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common shares.  Because our decision to incur more debt or issue additional equity securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital raising activities.  Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future debt and equity issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their percentage ownership.. The market price of our common shares could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public markets.. As of February 8, 2018, there were 78,676,917 shares issued and outstanding, all of which are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\").  Approximately 37.5% of our outstanding common shares are held by our affiliates and can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. One affiliate, Marubeni, currently holds 27.5% of our outstanding common shares.  Beginning in July 2016, pursuant to the occurrence of certain events set forth in the Shareholders Agreement, Marubeni and permitted third-party transferees have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their common shares into the public markets.  Another investor, Teachers', currently holds 10.0% of our outstanding common shares and has the ability to cause us to register the resale of their common shares into the public markets.  We cannot assure you if or when any such registration or offering may occur.. The issuance of additional common shares in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other shareholdings.. As of February 8, 2018, we had an aggregate of 149,656,905 common shares authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive plan. We may issue all of these common shares without any action or approval by our shareholders.  We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions of aviation assets and may issue common shares in connection with these acquisitions.  Any common shares issued in connection with our acquisitions, our incentive plan, and the exercise of outstanding share options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by existing shareholders.. Risks Related to Taxation. If Aircastle were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net income basis, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. If, contrary to expectations, Aircastle were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of its net income, if any, that was \"effectively connected\" with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35% for taxable years ending on or prior to December 31, 2017 and 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (such rate, the \"Federal Rate\").  Such reduction in the Federal Rate occurred as a result of the recent passage of The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on December 22, 2017 (the \"Tax Act\").  In addition, Aircastle would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%.  The imposition. 26. of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. If there is not sufficient trading in our shares, or if 50% of our shares are held by certain 5% shareholders, we could lose our eligibility for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation on rental income from our aircraft used in \"international traffic\" and could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We expect that we are currently eligible for an exemption under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), which provides an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation with respect to rental income derived from aircraft used in international traffic by certain foreign corporations.  No assurances can be given that we will continue to be eligible for this exemption as our stock is traded on the market and changes in our ownership or the amount of our shares that are traded could cause us to cease to be eligible for such exemption.  To qualify for this exemption in respect of rental income, the lessor of the aircraft must be organized in a country that grants a comparable exemption to U.S. lessors (Bermuda and Ireland each do), and certain other requirements must be satisfied. We can satisfy these requirements in any year if, for more than half the days of such year, our shares are primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange and certain shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more of our shares (applying certain attribution rules), do not collectively own more than 50% of our shares.  Our shares will be considered to be primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange in any year if: (i) the number of trades in our shares effected on such recognized stock exchanges exceed the number of our shares (or direct interests in our shares) that are traded during the year on all securities markets; (ii) trades in our shares are effected on such stock exchanges in more than de minimis quantities on at least 60 days during every calendar quarter in the year; and (iii) the aggregate number of our shares traded on such stock exchanges during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of our shares outstanding in that class during that year. If our shares cease to satisfy these requirements, then we may no longer be eligible for the Section 883 exemption with respect to rental income earned by aircraft used in international traffic.  If we were not eligible for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code, we expect that the U.S. source rental income of Aircastle Bermuda generally would be subject to U.S. federal taxation, on a gross income basis, at a rate of not in excess of 4% as provided in Section 887 of the Code. If, contrary to expectations, Aircastle Bermuda did not comply with certain administrative guidelines of the Internal Revenue Service, such that 90% or more of Aircastle Bermuda's U.S. source rental income were attributable to the activities of personnel based in the United States, Aircastle Bermuda's U.S. source rental income would be treated as income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States.  In such case, Aircastle Bermuda's U.S. source rental income would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on its net income at the Federal Rate as well as state and local taxation.  In addition, Aircastle Bermuda would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%.  The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. One or more of our Irish subsidiaries could fail to qualify for treaty benefits, which would subject certain of their income to U.S. federal income taxation, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Qualification for the benefits of the double tax treaty between the United States and Ireland (the \"Irish Treaty\") depends on many factors, including being able to establish the identity of the ultimate beneficial owners of our common shares.  Each of the Irish subsidiaries may not satisfy all the requirements of the Irish Treaty and thereby may not qualify each year for the benefits of the Irish Treaty or may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States.  Moreover, the provisions of the Irish Treaty may change.  Failure to so qualify, or to be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States, could result in the rental income from aircraft used for flights within the United States being subject to increased U.S. federal income taxation.  The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We may become subject to an increased rate of Irish taxation which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.. Our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates are expected to be subject to corporation tax on their income from leasing, managing and servicing aircraft at the 12.5% tax rate applicable to trading income.  This expectation is based on certain assumptions, including that we will maintain at least the current level of our business operations in Ireland.  If we are not successful in achieving trading status in Ireland, the non-trading income activities of our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates would be subject to tax at the rate of 25% and capital gains would be taxed at the rate of 35%, which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.. 27. We may be subject to an increased rate of Singapore taxation which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.. Our Singapore subsidiaries are subject to Singapore income tax on their income from leasing, managing and servicing aircraft.  Our Singapore subsidiaries had obtained a reduced rate of tax from the Singapore authorities through June 30, 2017.  Beginning on July 1, 2017 and effective to June 30, 2022, the Singapore authorities renewed the reduced rate of tax to our Singapore subsidiaries, provided we satisfy certain conditions and requirements.  If we cannot meet such conditions and requirements, or if the award is not renewed after June 30, 2022, we would be subject to additional Singapore income tax.  This would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.. We may become subject to income or other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which our aircraft operate, where our lessees are located or where we perform certain services which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distributions to shareholders.. Certain Aircastle entities are expected to be subject to the income tax laws of Ireland, Mauritius, Singapore and the United States.  In addition, we may be subject to income or other taxes in other jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located.  Although we have adopted operating procedures to reduce the exposure to such taxation, we may be subject to such taxes in the future and such taxes may be substantial.  In addition, if we do not follow separate operating guidelines relating to managing a portion of our aircraft portfolio through offices in Ireland and Singapore, income from aircraft not owned in such jurisdictions would be subject to local tax.  Changes in tax law could impose withholding taxes on lease payments during the term of a lease.  Our leases typically require our lessees to indemnify us in respect of taxes but some leases may not require such indemnification or a lessee may fail to make such indemnification payment.  The imposition of such taxes could adversely affect our business and result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders.. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has undertaken the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") project, which aims to restructure the taxation scheme currently affecting multinational entities.  If the proposals recommended under BEPS are implemented, the tax rules to which we are subject may increase our liability for non-U.S. taxes.. We expect to continue to be a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\") and may be a controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We expect to continue to be treated as a PFIC and may be a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If you are a U.S. person and do not make a qualified electing fund (\"QEF\") election with respect to us and each of our PFIC subsidiaries, unless we are a CFC and you own 10% of our voting shares, you would be subject to special deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our common shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our common shares and certain other events.  The effect of these deferred tax and interest charges could be materially adverse to you.  Alternatively, if you are such a shareholder and make a QEF election for us and each of our PFIC subsidiaries, or if we are a CFC and you own 10% or more of our voting shares, you will not be subject to those charges, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our common shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called \"phantom income\" and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability.. Distributions made to a U.S. person that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain United States corporations and \"qualified foreign corporations\" on or after January 1, 2003.  The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause individuals to perceive investment in our shares to be relatively less attractive than investment in the shares of other corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares.. Impact of U.S. Tax Reform. We have evaluated the effect that the Tax Act will have on our operations and cash flows.  As a non-U.S. company that earns a majority of its income outside of the United States, the Tax Act reduced our U.S. deferred taxes by $2.8 million.. We also do not expect to incur income taxes on future distributions of undistributed earnings on non-U.S. subsidiaries and accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided for the distributions of such earnings.  The Tax Act's Participation exemption and Transition tax are not applicable to us.. 28"
