[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" before making a decision to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The markets for our antenna products is developing and may not develop as we expect.. The wireless industry is developing and the markets for our antenna products may not develop as we expect. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates, customer demand for our antennas, the size and growth rate of our target markets, the entry of competitive products, or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our markets depends on several factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our antennas. If our antenna products do not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for antennas in our markets caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early order cancellations, or decreased sales, any of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. The timing and size of sales of our products are variable and difficult to predict and can result in fluctuations in our net sales from period to period. In addition, our budgeted expense levels depend in part on our expectations of future sales. Because any substantial adjustment to expenses to account for lower levels of sales is difficult and takes time, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in net sales, and even a small shortfall in net sales could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating margin and operating results for a given quarter.. Our operating results may also fluctuate due to a variety of other factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and volatile U.S., European, Asian and global economic environments, and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. Besides the other risks in this \"Risk Factors\" section, factors that may affect our operating results include:. •  fluctuations in demand for our products and services;. •  the inherent complexity, length and associated unpredictability of product development windows and product lifecycles;. •  the timing and extent of investment in our targeted growth markets and the timing and amount of sales in such markets;. •  changes in customers' budgets for technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles;. •  seasonal fluctuations around local holidays in China affecting how customers make purchasing decisions;. •  changing market conditions;. •  any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; and. 17. •  our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers' requirements.. For example, the slower than expected rollouts of our customers 802.11ax and DOCSIS 3.1 upgrade cycles in 2017 shifted the timing of our product sales, and such future deployment delays could also affect our quarterly operating results.  The cumulative effects of the factors above could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance.. Our products are subject to intense competition, including competition from the customers to whom we sell.. Antenna solutions is an established technical field with low intellectual property and technological barriers to entry. Antenna competition exists globally for all areas of our business and product lines. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future from established competitors and new market entrants. The markets are influenced by, among others, brand awareness and reputation, price, strength and scale of sales and marketing efforts, professional services and customer support, product features, reliability and performance, scalability of products, and breadth of product offerings. Due to the proprietary nature of some of our products, competition occurs primarily at the design stage. As a result, a design win by our competitors or by us typically limits further competition regarding that design. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. From a cost and control perspective, our products generally cost more than our competitors' products.. If our ability to design antenna solutions is deemed to be on par or of lesser value than competing solutions, we could lose our customers and prospects.. New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in our markets may harm our competitive position.. The markets for development, distribution, and sale of our products are rapidly evolving. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology and new products may make it more difficult for us to sell our products, and could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products for the wireless market that meet the needs of our customers.. Our sales depend on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers' needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to introduce new products for the wireless market, anticipate improvements and enhancements in wireless technology and wireless standards, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing wireless industry. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to rapidly achieve volume production. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure that product introductions will meet the anticipated release schedules or that our wireless products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the emerging nature of the wireless market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies.. Our business is characterized by short product development windows and short product lifecycles.. Our solutions are purchased and integrated by customers in the electronics industry. In many cases, the products that include our solutions are subject to short product development windows and short product lifecycles. In the case of the short product development window, we may be pressured to provide solutions that are the lowest in cost to be accepted. Customer pressure could force us to reduce our price to win designs with short development. 18. windows. Regarding short product lifecycles, we might provide up-front design and engineering work, but ultimately lose the design to a competitor, or even if we win the design, such design could be extremely short-lived due to our customers' inability to sell the product in significant volume. Our up-front costs associated with a design can be significant, and if the sales volumes are inadequate due to lack of acceptance and/or short lifecycle, our financial performance will be impaired.. Any delays in our sales cycles could result in customers canceling purchases of our products.. Sales cycles for some of our products can be lengthy, often lasting several months to a year or longer. In addition, it can take additional time before a customer commences volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. Sales cycles can be lengthy for several reasons, including:. •  our OEM customers and carriers usually complete a lengthy technical evaluation of our products, over which we have no control, before placing a purchase order;. •  the commercial introduction of our products by OEM customers and carriers is typically limited during the initial release to evaluate product performance; and. •  the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed.. A significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed and is based in large part on our forecasts of volume and timing of orders. The lengthy sales cycles make forecasting the volume and timing of product orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks of customer decisions to cancel or change product phases. If customer cancellations or product changes were to occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without sufficient time for us to reduce our operating expenses. In addition, although we currently do not maintain significant inventories, we may in the future establish significant inventory levels to meet forecasted future demand. If the forecasted demand does not materialize into purchase orders for these products, we may be required to write off our inventory balances or reduce the value of our inventory, based on a reduced sales price. A write off of the inventory, or a reduction in the inventory value due to a sales price reduction, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We have a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future.. Before 2013, we had incurred net losses in each year since our inception. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $42.4 million at December 31, 2017. Because the market for our antenna products is rapidly evolving, it is difficult for us to predict our operating results. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years as we hire additional personnel, particularly in engineering, sales, and marketing, and continue to develop new antenna products to address new and evolving markets. In addition, as a public company we will incur additional significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our sales do not increase to offset these increases in our operating expenses, we may not be profitable in future periods. Our historical sales growth has been inconsistent and should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Any failure to sustain or increase our profitability consistently could cause the value of our common stock to materially decline.. 19. A limited number of customers and devices represent a significant portion of our sales. If we were to lose any of these customers or devices, our sales could decrease significantly.. Our top two customers, Synnex Technology International (HK) Ltd. and Syntech Asia Ltd., accounted for approximately 21% and 13% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017, respectively, and 20% and 31% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2016, respectively. Although our top customers that pay for our products are often ODMs and distributors, it is primarily the OEMs, carrier customers and retail-focused end-customers that drive the use of our antenna solutions and the purchase by the ODMs and distributors of our antenna solutions. In addition, a few end-customer devices which incorporate our antenna products comprise a significant amount of our sales, and the discontinuation or modification of such devices may materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Any significant loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, these other significant customers or customers that drive the use of our antenna solutions or a modification or discontinuation of a device which constitutes a significant portion of sales could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We sell to customers who are extremely price conscious.. Our customers compete in segments of the electronics market. The electronics market is characterized by intense competition as companies strive to come to market with innovative designs that attract customers based upon design, performance, cost, ease of use, and convenience. Product lifecycles can be extremely short as companies try to gain advantage over their competitors. Because of the high design and engineering costs, companies that are customers or prospects for antenna solutions are extremely cost conscious. As a result, our customers and prospects demand price cuts in established products, and negotiate aggressively for lower pricing on new products. Because of the intense competition in the antenna solution market, we encounter situations that lead to difficult price negotiations potentially resulting in lower margins than forecast.. We generally rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to produce and ship our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with these parties successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products.. We have limited manufacturing capability, solely with respect to antennas deployed in the fleet market.  For all of our other products, we outsource the manufacturing, assembly and testing of products.  We rely on two contract manufacturers, which are both located in China, to manufacture, control quality of, and ship our products. We do not have long-term contracts with these manufacturers that commit them to manufacture products for us. Any significant change in our relationship with these manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We make substantially all of our purchases from our contract manufacturers on a purchase order basis. Our contract manufacturers are not required to manufacture our products for any specific period or in any specific quantity. We expect that it would take approximately six to nine months to transition manufacturing, quality assurance, and shipping services to new providers. Relying on contract manufacturers for manufacturing, quality assurance, and shipping also presents significant risks to us, including the inability of our contract manufacturers to:. •  qualify appropriate component suppliers;. •  manage capacity during periods of high demand;. •  meet delivery schedules;. •  assure the quality of our products;. •  ensure adequate supplies of materials;. •  protect our intellectual property; and. •  deliver finished products at agreed-upon prices.. 20. We manufacture products for our fleet market primarily in our facilities in Scottsdale, Arizona.  We may not be able to manufacture our products with consistent and satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities to meet demand.  We also may experience delays or disruptions at our manufacturing facilities, which could result in delays of product shipments to our customers.  Any failure by us or our contract manufacturers to timely product products of satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities in compliance with applicable laws could hurt our reputation, cause customers to cancel orders or refrain from placing new orders for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We may experience delays in obtaining product from manufacturers and may not be a high priority for our manufacturers.. The ability and willingness of our contract manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. We believe that our orders may not represent a material portion of our contract manufacturers' total orders and, as a result, fulfilling our orders may not be a priority if our contract manufacturers are constrained in their abilities or resources to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. If any of our contract manufacturers suffers an interruption in its business, experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations or we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed and our sales could become volatile and our cost of sales may increase.. Our contract manufacturers purchase some components, subassemblies and products from a single or limited number of suppliers. The loss of any of these suppliers may substantially disrupt our ability to obtain orders and fulfill sales as we design in and qualify new components.. We rely on third-party components and technology to build and operate our products, and we rely on our contract manufacturers to obtain the components, subassemblies, and products necessary for the manufacture of certain of our products. Shortages in components we use in our products are possible, and our ability to predict the availability of such components is limited. If shortages occur in the future, as they have in the past, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Unpredictable price increases of such components due to market demand may occur. While components and supplies are generally available from a variety of sources, we and our contract manufacturers depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for several components for our products. If our suppliers of these components or technology were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of wireless networking equipment or were to discontinue providing such components and technology to us and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide our products would be impaired. Additionally, poor quality in any of the single or limited sourced components in our products could result in lost sales or lost sales opportunities. We and our contract manufacturers generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with these suppliers. As a result, even if available, we and our contract manufacturers may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build our products in a timely manner. Therefore, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We rely significantly on channel partners to sell and support our products, and the failure of this channel to be effective could materially reduce our sales.. Our indirect channel partners, which include outside sales representatives, accounted for 24% of our sales in 2017  and 23% in 2016. We believe that establishing and maintaining successful relationships with these channel partners is, and will continue to be, important to our financial success. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings require significant time and resources. To develop and expand our channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel partners, including investment in systems and training.. Existing and future channel partners will only work with us if we are able to provide them with competitive products on terms that are commercially reasonable to them. If we fail to maintain the quality of our products or to update and enhance them, existing and future channel partners may elect to work instead with one or more of our competitors. In addition, the terms of our arrangements with our channel partners must be commercially reasonable. 21. for both parties. If we are unable to reach agreements that are beneficial to both parties, then our channel partner relationships will not succeed.. We have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our channel partners, and our contracts with channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours, including products they currently offer or may develop in the future and incorporate into their own systems. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our channel partners than we do and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those partners use our products, rather than our competitors' products, or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors' products, rather than our offerings.. The reduction in or loss of sales by these channel partners could materially reduce our sales. If we fail to maintain relationships with our channel partners, fail to develop new relationships with other channel partners in new markets, fail to manage, train or incentivize existing channel partners effectively, fail to provide channel partners with competitive products on terms acceptable to them, or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, our sales may decrease and our operating results could suffer.. Defects in our products or poor design and engineering services could result in lost sales and subject us to substantial liability.. Our antenna solutions are a critical element in determining the operating performance of our customers' products. If our antenna solutions perform poorly, whether due to design, engineering, placement or other reasons, we could lose sales. In certain cases, if our antenna solution is found to be the component that leads to failure or a failure to meet the performance specifications of our customer, we could be required to pay monetary damages to our customer. Real or perceived defects or errors in our antenna solutions could result in claims by channel partners and customers for losses they sustain. If channel partners or customers make these types of claims, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources to help correct the problem, including warranty and repair costs, process management costs and costs associated with remanufacturing our inventory. Liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale may not be enforceable under some circumstances or may not fully or effectively protect us from claims and related liabilities and costs. In addition, regardless of the party at fault, errors of these kinds divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, damage our reputation and the reputation of our products, cause significant customer relations problems and can result in product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain types of claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any such claims. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in expenditures of funds in connection with litigation and divert management's time and other resources. We also may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one or more of our products.. The process of identifying recalled products that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources, and we may incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and significant harm to our reputation. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel may impair our ability to expand our business.. Our success depends upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel, including Charles Myers, who is our President and Chief Executive Officer. The replacement of any members of our senior management team or other key employees or consultants likely would involve significant time and costs and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining human resource competencies we need to achieve our business objectives may have an adverse effect on our performance.. 22. We are subject to the risk that third-party consultants will not perform their tasks effectively and that we will be unsuccessful in operating our business as a result.. We rely on third parties, such as a sales consultants and engineering contractors, for a portion of the design and sales and marketing of our products. The engineering contractors typically work directly with our design team but are employed by our contract manufacturers in China. We rely on these third parties in addition to our own employees to perform the daily tasks necessary to operate our business in these areas and cannot ensure that third-party consultants will be able to complete their work for us in a timely manner. Accordingly, our reliance on third parties exposes us to the risk that our business will be unsuccessful if they do not design and sell our product as expected.. Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of select assets and businesses. For example, we acquired certain North American assets from Skycross, Inc., in December 2015 and in April 2017 we acquired the Antenna Plus assets. When pursuing acquisitions, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. Any acquisitions we complete, may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, and could be viewed negatively by our end-customers, investors and financial analysts. Acquisitions involve many risks. An acquisition may negatively affect our operating results, financial condition or cash flows because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition.. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.. We may become party to litigation claims and legal proceedings. Litigation involves significant risks, uncertainties and costs, including distraction of management attention away from our current business operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current estimates. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our employees and agents with all United States and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, including those prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will always ensure full compliance by our employees and agents with all applicable legal requirements. Improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation in the United States and internationally or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits.. 23. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the 2017 Tax Act, was enacted.  The 2017 Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures.  Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and credits to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be subject to limitations, and future transfers of shares of our common stock, could cause us to experience an \"ownership change\" that could limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses.. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation's ability to utilize its net operating losses, or NOL's, to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if it experiences an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code.  In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in a corporation's ownership by \"5 percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change NOLs equal to the value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments).  The annual limitation for a taxable year is generally increased by the amount of any \"recognized built-in gains\" for such a year and the amount of any unused annual limitation in a prior year.. In May 2014, we completed an analysis that determined the Company had not undergone an ownership change.  We believe however, that our initial public offering that occurred during 2016 may have triggered an ownership change.  However, based on the value of the Company at the ownership change date, we believe that the limitation would not ultimately limit the amount of the net operating losses and credits that could be used prior to their expiration.. In addition, under the 2017 Tax Act, although the treatment of tax losses generated before December 31, 2017 has generally not changed, tax losses generated in calendar year 2018 and beyond may only offset 80% of our taxable income. This change may require us to pay federal income taxes in future years despite generating a loss for federal income tax purposes in prior years. Any such limitations on the ability to use our NOLs and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our election to not opt out of the extended accounting transition period under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, may make our financial statements difficult to compare to other companies.. Under the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we can elect to opt out of the extended transition period for any new or revised accounting standards. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period. This means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, are permitted to use any extended transition period for adoption that is provided in the new or revised accounting standard having different application dates for public and private companies. This may make the comparison of our financial statements with any other public company, which is not either an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period, difficult or impossible as possible different or revised standards may be used.. 24. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In addition, because of our status as an emerging growth company, you will not be able to depend on any attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal control over financial reporting for the foreseeable future.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and controls over financial reporting. In particular, we are required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. Accordingly, you will not be able to depend on any attestation concerning our internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm for the foreseeable future.. Compliance with environmental matters and worker health and safety laws could be costly, and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, expenses and financial condition.. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws.. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events.. Our corporate headquarters are located in Southern California, and our two contract manufacturers are located in eastern Asia, both regions known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a fire or a flood, occurring near our headquarters, or near the facilities of our contract manufacturers, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. The terms of our amended and restated loan and security agreement place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business.. We have a $10.0 million revolving credit facility and a $4.0 million growth capital term loan under our amended and restated loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. These loans are secured by a lien covering substantially all of our properties, rights and assets, excluding intellectual property. As of December 31, 2017, the revolving credit facility was undrawn, and the outstanding principal balance of the growth capital term loan and the additional term loan was $1.3 million.  On January 31, 2018, we entered into a second amended and restated loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank.  The second amended and restated loan and security agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default applicable to us and any subsidiaries, if any. The affirmative covenants include, among others, covenants requiring us (and us to cause our subsidiaries) to maintain our legal existence and governmental approvals, deliver certain financial reports, maintain insurance coverage, keep inventory, if any, in good and marketable condition, maintain a liquidity ratio of cash and cash equivalents plus accounts receivable outstanding debt under the second amended and restated loan and security agreement minus deferred revenue of 1.25 to 1.00, and protect material intellectual property. The negative covenants include, among others, restrictions on us and our subsidiaries transferring collateral, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, making investments, creating liens, selling assets and making any payment on subordinated debt, in each case subject to certain exceptions. If we default under the facility, the lender may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, the lender's right to repayment would be senior to. 25. the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. The lender could declare a default upon the occurrence of any event that it interprets as a material adverse effect as defined under the credit facility, thereby requiring us to repay the loan immediately or to attempt to reverse the declaration of default through negotiation or litigation. Any declaration by the lender of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility.. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged.. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. The growth and expansion of our business and product offerings places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Any such future growth would also add complexity to and require effective coordination throughout our organization. To date, we have used the services of third-parties to perform tasks including design and sales and marketing. Our growth strategy may entail expanding our group of contractors or consultants to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on consultants, effectively outsourcing key functions of our business, we will need to be able to manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our ability to provide quality products in a timely manner could be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition.. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which could damage our reputation and brand and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business, operating results and growth rates may be adversely affected by current or future unfavorable economic and market conditions.. Our business depends on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective end- customers to make those capital commitments necessary to purchase our products. If the conditions in the U.S. and global economies remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Economic weakness, end-customer financial difficulties, limited availability of credit and constrained capital spending have at times in the past resulted, and may in the future result, in challenging and delayed sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, and could negatively affect our ability to forecast future periods, which could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share.. In addition, if interest rates rise or foreign exchange rates weaken for our international customers, overall demand for our products and services could decline and related capital spending may be reduced. Furthermore, any increase in worldwide commodity prices may result in higher component prices for us and increased shipping costs, both of which may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our market efforts and our brand. Failure to maintain and enhance our brand would harm our ability to maintain and expand our base of customers.. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is important to maintaining and expanding our base of customers who purchase our products. This will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality solutions, and we may not be able to do so effectively. While we may engage in a broader marketing campaign to further promote our brand, this effort may not succeed. Our efforts in developing our brand may be affected by the marketing efforts of. 26. our competitors. If we are unable to cost-effectively maintain and increase awareness of our brand, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our brand may be impaired by other factors, including product malfunctions. Any inability to effectively police our trademark rights against unauthorized uses by third parties could adversely impact the value of our trademarks and our brand recognition. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we need to incur unanticipated expenses to establish our brand in new markets, our operating results would be negatively affected from reduced sales and increased marketing expenses.. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights.. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. For example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and there can be no assurance we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property.. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business.. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. As the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase.. Intellectual property claims against us, and any resulting lawsuits, may result in our incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. These claims, regardless of their merits or outcome, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management's time and attention.. We are generally obligated to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products, which could force us to incur substantial costs.. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our channel partners and end-customers for certain intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these channel partners and end-customers, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund amounts they have paid to us. Our channel partners and other end-customers. 27. in the future may seek indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought against them. We will evaluate each such request on a case-by-case basis and we may not succeed in refuting all such claims. If a channel partner or end-customer elects to invest resources in enforcing a claim for indemnification against us, we could incur significant costs disputing it. If we do not succeed in disputing it, we could face substantial liability.. Risks Related to Our International Operations. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The substantial majority of our sales are to ODMs and distributors based in China. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 45% of the end-customers of our products, based on sales, are outside of North America, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. We have limited sales personnel and sales and support operations in the United States, Asia, and Europe. Our ability to convince customers to expand their use of our antenna products is directly correlated to our direct engagement with our end-customers and our channel partners. To the extent we are unable to engage with non-U.S. customers effectively with our limited sales force capacity, we may be unable to grow sales to existing customers.. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations; reliance on channel partners; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; compliance with foreign laws and regulations; compliance with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing rights abroad. Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international sales or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition and growth prospects.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws.. Our products are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our products must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we violate these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers, and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our channel partners, agents or consultants fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Changes in our products or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may also create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, prevent our end-customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import laws and regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing laws and regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such laws and regulations, could also result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any. 28. withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last until March 2019.  The referendum and the ensuing process of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital and negatively affect our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and affect our strategy in the European market.. Changes to United States tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. There have been ongoing discussions and commentary regarding potential significant changes to United States trade policies, treaties, tariffs and taxes, including trade policies and tariffs regarding China. We do a significant amount of business in China, including dealing with Chinese suppliers and customers. The current administration, along with Congress, has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and other countries with respect to the trade policies, treaties, taxes, government regulations and tariffs that would be applicable. It is unclear what changes might be considered or implemented and what response to any such changes may be by the governments of other countries. These changes have created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and China, as well as other countries, including with respect to the trade policies, treaties, government regulations and tariffs that could apply to trade between the United States and other nations. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between these nations and the United States. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to suppliers or customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and affect our strategy in China and elsewhere around the world.. New regulations or standards or changes in existing regulations or standards in the United States or internationally related to our end-customer's products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business.. Our end-customers' products are subject to governmental regulations in many jurisdictions. To achieve and maintain market acceptance, our end-customers' products must continue to comply with these regulations and many industry standards. In the United States, our end-customers' products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission, Underwriters Laboratories and others. Our end-customers must also comply with similar international regulations.. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, our end-customers may have to modify their products. The failure of their products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our antennas used in their products, which could harm our business. End-customer uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, channel partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. We operate in several foreign countries. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Practices in the local business communities of many. 29. countries outside the United States have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially in response to various factors. This may be especially true for companies with a small public float. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. From August 12, 2016, the date that our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, through February 26, 2018, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from $7.31 per share to $29.30 per share. The trading price of our common stock depends on several factors, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this annual report, including:. •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. •  volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks;. •  changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. •  sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. •  failure of financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. •  the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of new products or new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. •  rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;. •  actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. •  litigation involving us, our industry or both or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors;. •  developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. •  announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. •  any major change in our management;. •  general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.. 30. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes, may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.  The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price for our common stock.. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market prices of particular companies' securities, securities class action litigations have often been instituted against these companies. Litigation of this type, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments.. Our directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, will beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 20.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to significantly influence and may be able to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to significantly influence and may be able to control the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might adversely affect the market price of our common stock by:. •  delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; or. •  a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company.. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the trading price of our common stock or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions:. •  authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and up to 200,000,000 shares of authorized common stock;. •  require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. 31. •  specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President;. •  establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. •  establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms;. •  provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; and. •  provide that vacancies on our board of directors may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum.. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Furthermore, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation specifies that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our second amended and restated loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank restricts our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock without the prior written consent of Silicon Valley Bank, and we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that will restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be maintained.. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2016, there was not a public market for our common stock. Given the small size of our initial public offering, it may take some time for an active market to fully develop. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain an active trading market for our shares. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration.. 32. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize new solutions and technologies and expand our operations.. If our available cash balances anticipated cash flow from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including because of lower demand for our products as a result of other risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this annual report, we may seek to raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations or licensing arrangements. We may also consider raising additional capital in the future to expand our business, pursue strategic investments, take advantage of financing opportunities, or other reasons.. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of debt securities issued or borrowings could impose significant restrictions on our operations. The incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the issuance of additional equity securities by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these actions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things:. •  exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements;. •  exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and. •  exemption from any rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2021, which is the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1 billion or more, (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter.. 33. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company.. As a public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements, to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives and our legal and accounting compliance costs will increase. It is likely that we will need to hire additional staff in the areas of investor relations, legal and accounting.  These new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are evaluating and monitoring developments regarding these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as a public company, we are required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As described above, as an emerging growth company, we will not need to comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 for several years. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline.. When the available exemptions under the JOBS Act, as described above, cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs."
