[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following are important factors that could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time.. If we do not continue to innovate, make sound investments that bring positive returns, and develop profitable products and solutions that are attractive to existing and potential customers, our operating results may suffer.. We have been in business for nearly two decades and consider ourselves pioneers in the development of content and application delivery and security solutions. As the information technology industry evolves, however, it may become increasingly difficult for us to maintain a technological advantage in business areas where we have historically placed our focus. In particular, our traditional offerings, particularly our media and website delivery services, could face more intense competition as competitors or even current or former customers seek to replicate them such that we must lower the prices we charge, reducing the profitability of such offerings, or risk losing such business.. It is, therefore, also important to our revenue growth and profitability that we enter into new business areas that present significant value-generating investment opportunities. This requires investing in business areas that can potentially provide positive returns and developing or acquiring innovative, high-margin solutions, including in areas such as enterprise security and digital performance management. We must do so in a rapidly-changing technology environment where it can be difficult to anticipate the needs of potential customers, where competitors may develop products and services that are, or may be viewed as, better than ours and where it can be costly to acquire other companies. The process of developing new solutions is complex and uncertain; we must commit significant resources to developing new services or features without knowing whether our investments will result in solutions the market will accept, and we may choose to invest in business areas for which a viable market for our products does not ultimately develop. This could cause our expenses to grow more rapidly than our revenue. There is often a lengthy period between commencing development initiatives and bringing new or improved solutions to market. During this time, technology preferences, customer demand and the market for our solutions, or those introduced by our competitors, may move in directions that we had not anticipated when we decided to pursue such initiatives. Furthermore, we may not successfully execute our technology initiatives because of errors in planning, timing or execution, technical or operational hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources.. Failure to invest in areas that can potentially provide a positive return or to adequately develop, on a cost-effective basis, innovative new or enhanced solutions that are attractive to customers and profitable to us and inability to keep pace with rapid technological and market changes could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Slower traffic growth on our network and numerous other factors could cause our revenue growth rate to slow and profitability to decline.. During the past twenty years, we have diversified our business from a media-dominated CDN by becoming a leading supplier of web and security products and services for a broad range of customers in myriad industries. Nevertheless, increasing traffic on our network remains key to our revenue growth and profitability. Numerous factors can impact traffic growth including:. • the pace of introduction of over-the-top (often referred to as OTT) video delivery initiatives by our customers;. • the popularity of our customers' streaming offerings as compared to those offered by companies that do not use our services;. • the pace at which our customers' enterprise applications move from behind the firewall to the cloud;. 10. Table of Contents. • media and other customers utilizing their own data centers and implementing delivery approaches that limit or eliminate reliance on third party providers like us; and. • macro-economic market and industry pressures.. We base our decisions about expense levels and investments on estimates of our future revenue and future anticipated rate of growth. In addition, many of our expenses are fixed cost in nature for some minimum amount of time so it may not be possible to reduce costs in a timely manner or without the payment of fees to exit certain obligations early. If we experience slower traffic growth on our network than we expect or than we have experienced in recent years, our revenue growth rate will slow, and we may not be able to maintain our current level of profitability in 2018 or on a quarterly or annual basis thereafter.. Our profitability may also decline in future periods as a result of a number of other factors unrelated to traffic growth, including:. • inability to increase sales of our core services and advanced features;. • pricing pressure on our solutions;. • failure of our new products and services, including our enterprise security and digital performance management solutions, to achieve sufficient market acceptance given our investment to develop them;. • increased headcount expenses;. • changes in our customers' business models that we do not fully anticipate or that we fail to address adequately; and. • increased reliance by customers on our secure socket layer, or SSL, network which is more expensive to maintain and operate.. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected.. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Our current and potential competitors vary by size, product and service offerings, and geographic region and range from start-ups that offer solutions competing with a discrete part of our business to large technology or telecommunications companies that offer, or may be planning to introduce, products and services that are broadly competitive with what we do. The primary competitive factors in our market are: excellence of technology, global presence, customer service, technical expertise, security, ease-of-use, breadth of services offered, price and financial strength. Competitors include some of our current partners and customers.. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, broader product portfolios, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. As a result, some of these competitors may be able to:. • develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance, enter new markets more easily, and expand their service offerings more efficiently or more rapidly;. • combine their products that are competitive with ours with other solutions they offer in a way that makes our offerings less appealing to current and potential customers;. •adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements more quickly;. •take advantage of acquisition, investment and other opportunities more readily;. • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and allocate greater resources to the promotion, marketing, and sales of their services; and. •dedicate greater resources to the research and development of their products and services.. Smaller and more nimble competitors may be able to:. • attract customers by offering less sophisticated versions of services than we provide at lower prices than those we charge;. •develop new business models that are disruptive to us; and. • respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements and market and industry developments, resulting in superior offerings.. Existing and potential customers may not purchase our services, or may limit their use of them, because they:. • pursue a \"do-it-yourself\" approach by putting in place equipment, software and other technology solutions for content and application delivery within their internal systems;. •enter into relationships directly with network providers instead of relying on an overlay network like ours; or. •implement multi-vendor policies to reduce reliance on external providers like us.. 11. Table of Contents. Ultimately, increased competition of all types could result in price and revenue reductions, loss of customers and loss of market share, each of which could materially impact our business, profitability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be unable to replace lost revenue due to customer cancellations, renewals at lower rates or other less favorable terms.. It is key to our profitability that we offset lost committed recurring revenue due to customer cancellations, terminations, price reductions or other less favorable terms by adding new customers, sellng more high-margin services, features and functionalities to existing customers and increasing traffic usage by all customers. Some customers may elect not to renew and others may renew at lower prices, lower committed traffic levels, or for shorter contract lengths. Historically, a significant percentage of our renewals, particularly with larger customers, has led to unit price declines as competition has increased and the market for certain parts of our business has matured. Our renewal rates may decline as a result of a number of factors, including competitive pressures, customer dissatisfaction with our services, customers' inability to continue their operations and spending levels, the impact of multi-vendor policies, customers implementing or increasing their use of in-house technology solutions and general economic conditions. In addition, our customer contracting models may change to move away from a committed revenue structure to a \"pay-as-you-go\" approach. The absence of a commitment would make it easier for customers to stop doing business with us, which would negatively impact revenue.. Security breaches and attacks on our platform could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could harm our business, financial results and reputation.. Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable distribution of applications and content over the Internet. We transmit and store our customers' information, data and encryption keys as well as our own; customer information and data may, in turn, include individual data of and about their customers. Maintaining the security and availability of our services, network and internal IT systems and the security of information we hold is a critical issue for us and our customers. Attacks on our customers and our own network are frequent and take a variety of forms, including DDoS attacks, infrastructure attacks, botnets, malicious file uploads, cross-site scripting, credential abuse, ransomware, bugs, viruses, worms and malicious software programs. Malicious actors can attempt to fraudulently induce employees or suppliers to disclose sensitive information through illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems.. In recent years, Internet-based attacks have increased in size, sophistication and complexity, increasing exposure for our customers and us. In addition, as we expand our emphasis on selling security-related solutions, we may become a more attractive target for attacks on our infrastructure intended to destabilize, overwhelm or shut down our platform. The costs to us to avoid or alleviate cyber or other security problems and vulnerabilities are significant. However, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful. Any significant breach of our security measures could:. • lead to the dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees or our customers  -  including personally identifiable information of individuals involved with our customers;. • threaten our ability to provide our customers with our services;. • generate negative publicity about us;. • result in litigation and increased legal liability or fines; or. • lead to governmental inquiry or oversight.. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business or damage our brand and reputation, lead to customer credits, loss of customers, higher expenses, and possibly impede our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers. A successful assault on our infrastructure would be damaging to our reputation and could adversely affect our financial condition.. Similar security risks exist with respect to our business partners and the third-party vendors that we rely on for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the activities of our business partners and third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if an attack or breach does not directly impact our systems.. 12. Table of Contents. We may have insufficient transmission and co-location space, which could result in disruptions to our services and loss of revenue.. Our operations are dependent in part upon transmission capacity provided by third party telecommunications network providers and access to co-location facilities to house our servers. There can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly those under cyber-attack. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. In some regions, network providers may choose to compete with us and become unwilling to sell us adequate transmission capacity at fair market prices. This risk is heightened where market power is concentrated with one or a few major networks. We also may be unable to move quickly enough to augment capacity to reflect growing traffic or security demands. Failure to put in place the capacity we require could result in a reduction in, or disruption of, service to our customers and ultimately a loss of those customers.. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions we complete could result in operating difficulties, dilution, diversion of management attention and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions and other types of strategic relationships that involve technology sharing or close cooperation with other companies. Acquisitions and other complex transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including the following:. • difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies;. • potential disruption of our ongoing business;. • potential distraction of management;. • diversion of business resources from core operations;. • expenses related to the transactions;. • failure to realize synergies or other expected benefits;. • increased accounting charges such as impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, amortization of intangible assets acquired and a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; and. • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.. Any inability to integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If we use a significant portion of our available cash to pay for acquisitions that are not successful, it could harm our balance sheet and limit our flexibility to pursue other opportunities without having enjoyed the intended benefits of the acquisition. As we complete acquisitions, we may encounter difficulty in incorporating acquired technologies into our offerings while maintaining the quality standards that are consistent with our brand and reputation. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions or other strategic transactions that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. Future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in dilutive issuances of securities. Technology sharing or other strategic relationships we enter into may give rise to disputes over intellectual property ownership, operational responsibilities and other significant matters. Such disputes may be expensive and time-consuming to resolve.. The information technology industry and the markets in which we compete are constantly evolving, which makes our future business strategies, practices and results difficult to predict.. The information technology industry and the markets in which we compete have grown significantly over the life of our company and continue to evolve rapidly in response to new technological advances, changing business models and other factors. We and the other companies that compete in this industry and these markets experience continually shifting business relationships, commercial focuses and business priorities, all of which occur in reaction to industry and market forces and the emergence of new opportunities. These shifts have led or could lead to:. • our customers or partners becoming our competitors;. • our network suppliers becoming partners with us or, conversely, no longer seeking to work with us;. • our working more closely with hardware providers;. • large technology companies that previously did not appear to show interest in the markets we seek to address entering into those markets as competitors; and. • needing to expand into new lines of business or to change or abandon existing strategies.. 13. Table of Contents. The Internet itself is constantly evolving. There could develop an inflection point above which global usage of the Internet increases to a level that causes our current approaches to the delivery of content and applications to no longer be sustainable at current levels of profitability or at all. We also need to continue to manage successfully the transition from the IPv4 protocol to IPv6.. With this constantly changing environment, our future business strategies, practices and results may be difficult to predict, and we may face operational difficulties in adjusting to the changes.  Any of these developments could harm our business.. Our operating results can be impacted by the actions and business life cycles of a small number of large customers.. Historically, our operating results have been subject to fluctuations due to our dependence on several large customers, particularly media companies, for a significant portion of our revenues. The amount of traffic we deliver on behalf of those customers can vary significantly based on decisions they make about their businesses, including whether to start or delay new business initiatives, build out their own networks to handle delivery, or implement or maintain multiple vendor strategies. These approaches can change rapidly and unpredictably. While we believe that we will be less reliant on individual customers in the future, we are likely to continue to face some uncertainty in forecasting our revenues as they relate to these customers from quarter to quarter or over longer periods. We could also experience inconsistent revenue growth patterns and earnings as a result of the behavior of these customers.. Our failure to effectively manage our operations as our business evolves could harm us.. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to manage our operations. As a result of the diversification of our business, personnel growth, acquisitions and international expansion in recent years, many of our employees are now based outside of our Cambridge, Massachusetts headquarters; however, most key management decisions are made by a relatively small group of individuals based primarily at our headquarters. If we are unable to appropriately increase management depth, enhance succession planning and decentralize our decision-making at a pace commensurate with our actual or desired growth rates, we may not be able to achieve our financial or operational goals. It is also important to our continued success that we hire qualified personnel, properly train them and manage out poorly-performing personnel, all while maintaining our corporate culture and spirit of innovation. If we are not successful in these efforts, our growth and operations could be adversely affected.. As our business evolves, we must also expand and adapt our IT and operational infrastructure. Our business relies on our data systems, traffic measurement systems, billing systems, ordering processes and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. All of these systems have become increasingly complex due to the diversification and complexity of our business, acquisitions of new businesses with different systems and increased regulation over controls and procedures. As a result, these systems could generate errors that impact traffic measurement or invoicing. We will need to continue to upgrade and improve our data systems, traffic measurement systems, billing systems, ordering processes and other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. These upgrades and improvements may be difficult and costly. If we are unable to adapt our systems and organization in a timely, efficient and cost-effective manner to accommodate changing circumstances, our business may be adversely affected.. Our restructuring and reorganization activities may be disruptive to our operations and harm our business.. Over the past several years, we have implemented internal restructurings and reorganizations designed to reduce the size and cost of our operations, improve operational efficiencies, enhance our ability to pursue market opportunities and accelerate our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, optimize our operations to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, or better reflect changes in the strategic direction of our business. Disruptions in operations may occur as a result of taking these actions. Taking these actions may also result in significant expense for us, including with respect to workforce reductions, as well as decreased productivity and unanticipated employee turnover. Substantial expense or business disruptions resulting from restructuring and reorganization activities could adversely affect our operating results.. If we are unable to retain our key employees and hire and retain qualified sales, technical, marketing and support personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed.. Our future success depends upon the services of our executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships. There is significant competition for talented individuals in the regions in which our primary offices are located, which affects both our ability to retain key employees and hire new ones. In making employment decisions, particularly in our industry, job candidates and current personnel often. 14. Table of Contents. consider the value of stock-based compensation. In recent years, we have increasingly linked compensation levels to corporate performance metrics. Declines in the price of our stock or failure to achieve annual revenue and profitability metrics could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees.. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. Members of our senior management team have left Akamai over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot be certain that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations and detrimental to our future outlook. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain new talent could hinder or delay the implementation of our business model and the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our services.. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and your investment could lose value.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Trading prices may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including the following:. • quarterly variations in operating results;. • announcements by our customers related to their businesses that could be viewed as impacting their usage of our solutions;. • market speculation about whether we are a takeover target or considering a strategic transaction;. • activism by any single large stockholder or combination of stockholders;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts;. • purchases or sales of our stock by our officers and directors;. • macro-economic factors;. • repurchases of shares of our common stock;. • successful cyber-attacks against our network or systems;. • performance by other companies in our industry; and. • geopolitical conditions such as acts of terrorism or military conflicts.. Furthermore, our revenue, particularly that portion attributable to usage of our services beyond customer commitments, can be difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. This concern is particularly acute with respect to our media and commerce customers for which holiday sales are a key but unpredictable driver of usage of our services. In the future, our customer contracting models may change to move away from a committed revenue structure to a \"pay-as-you-go\" approach. The absence of a minimum revenue commitment would make it easier for customers to stop doing business with us, which would create additional challenges with our forecasting processes. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. If we announce revenue or profitability results that do not meet or exceed our guidance or make changes in our guidance with respect to future operating results, our stock price may decrease significantly as a result.. Any of these events, as well as other circumstances discussed in these Risk Factors, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices of stock of publicly-traded technology companies in particular, have experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad stock market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Actions of activist stockholders could be distracting to us, cause us to incur significant expenses and impact the trading value of our common stock.. Responding to actions by activist stockholders could be distracting to our Board of Directors, executives and our other employees. Such activities may also require us to incur significant legal and other advisor fees and public relations costs. Perceived uncertainty as to our future direction could affect customer and investor sentiment, resulting in longer sales cycles, employee retention and hiring challenges, and volatility in the price of our common stock.. We face risks associated with global operations that could harm our business.. We have operations in numerous foreign countries and may continue to expand our operations internationally. As a result, we are increasingly subject to a number of risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, make our operations less efficient and require significant management attention. These risks include:. 15. Table of Contents. • regulations related to security requirements, data localization or restricting content that could pose risks to our intellectual property, increase the cost of doing business in a country or create other disadvantages to our business;. • interpretations of laws or regulations that would subject us to regulatory supervision or, in the alternative, require us to exit a country, which could have a negative impact on the quality of our services or our results of operations;. • uncertainty regarding liability for content or services;. • adjusting to different employee/employer relationships and different regulations governing such relationships;. • corporate and personal liability for alleged or actual violations of laws and regulations;. • difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds;. • difficulties in transferring funds from, or converting currencies in, certain countries;. • reliance on channel partners over which we have limited control or influence on a day-to-day basis; and. • potentially adverse tax consequences.. Geo-political events such as the United Kingdom's pending withdrawal from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit, may increase the likelihood of certain of these risks materializing or heighten their impact on us in affected regions. In particular, it is possible that the level of economic activity in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe will be adversely impacted and that we will face increased regulatory and legal complexities, including those related to tax, trade, security and employee relations as a result of Brexit. Such changes could be costly and potentially disruptive to our operations and business relationships in affected regions.. In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous, rapidly-changing and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others:. • internal control and disclosure rules;. • data protection, privacy and filtering regulations and requirements;. • anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials; and. • antitrust and competition regulations.. We entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement with the Commission in June 2016 in connection with the previously-disclosed investigation relating to sales practices in a country outside the U.S. In the event we violate the terms of this Non-Prosecution Agreement, we could be subject to additional investigation or enforcement by the Commission or the Department of Justice.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the Non-Prosecution Agreement and relevant laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws. Any such violations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our employees and prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. They could also materially affect our brand, our global operations, any international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business overall, and our financial results.. Defects or disruptions in our services could diminish demand for our solutions or subject us to substantial liability.. Our services are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks that we do not control. From time to time, we have needed to correct errors and defects in the software that underlies our services and platform that have given rise to service incidents or otherwise impacted our operations. We have also experienced customer dissatisfaction with the quality of some of our media delivery and other services, which has led to loss of business and could lead to loss of customers in the future. While we have robust quality control processes in the place, there may be additional errors and defects in our software that may adversely affect our operations. We may not have in place adequate quality assurance procedures to ensure that we detect errors in our software in a timely manner, and we may have insufficient resources to efficiently cope with multiple service incidents happening simultaneously or in rapid succession. If we are unable to efficiently and cost-effectively fix errors or other problems that may be identified and improve the quality of our services or systems, or if there are unidentified errors that allow persons to improperly access our services or systems, we could experience loss of revenue and market share, damage to our reputation, increased expenses, delayed payments and legal actions by our customers.. 16. Table of Contents. Government regulation is evolving, and unfavorable changes could harm our business.. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In particular, domestic and foreign government attempts to regulate the operation of the Internet could negatively impact our business.  It is unclear whether potential changes to regulations previously adopted by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission that govern certain aspects of the operation of the Internet (such as content blocking and throttling and paid prioritization) will be adopted and, if adopted, how they would apply to content delivery network providers like us. It is also uncertain how future regulatory and legislative initiatives or changes will impact our business.. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws and regulations could expose us to increased liability.. Privacy laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, are rapidly changing and evolving globally. Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. New laws and industry self-regulatory codes have been enacted and more are being considered that, like the GDPR, may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to understand how our products and services are being used, and to respond to customer requests allowed under the laws, and how we use data generated from our network. Any perception that our business practices, data collection activities or how our services operate represent an invasion of privacy, whether or not consistent with current regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism (or boycotts), class action lawsuits, reputational harm or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability. Compliance with GDPR may be administratively difficult and expensive.. Over the past several years, the regulatory landscape governing the transfer of covered personal data from Europe to the United States has seen sweeping changes. Currently, we have in place U.S.-European Union and U.S. Swiss Privacy Shield Frameworks to legally transfer covered personal data from Europe to the United States, but their legitimacy may continue to be subject to challenge and review. Any changing or new requirements or rulings by the European Commission or EU member jurisdictions may impact our services or subject us to sanctions, including fines and a prohibition on data transfers, by EU data protection regulators. Furthermore, any continued or new judicial challenges or reviews may result in new, modified or inconsistent standards or requirements for the transfer of personal data, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfer for us and our customers. These developments could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also have a publicly-available privacy policy concerning our collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policy could result in damage to our reputation or proceedings or actions against us, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. We may need to defend against patent or copyright infringement claims, which would cause us to incur substantial costs or limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.. As we expand our business and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims, including those that may arise under international laws. In many cases, we have agreed to indemnify our customers and channel and strategic partners if our services infringe or misappropriate specified intellectual property rights; therefore, we could become involved in litigation or claims brought against customers or channel or strategic partners if our services or technology are the subject of such allegations. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, brought against us or pursuant to which we indemnify our customers or channel or strategic partners could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and require us to do one or more of the following:. • cease selling, incorporating or using features, functionalities, products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • pay substantial damages and incur significant litigation expenses;. • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or. • redesign products or services.. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection. We have previously brought lawsuits against entities that we believed were infringing our intellectual property rights but have not always prevailed. Such lawsuits can be expensive and require a significant amount of attention from our management and technical personnel, and the outcomes are unpredictable. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will provide competitive advantages to us. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced. Although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Such licenses may also be non-exclusive, meaning our competition may also be able to access such technology.. We rely on certain \"open-source\" software the use of which could result in our having to distribute our proprietary software, including our source code, to third parties on unfavorable terms, which could materially affect our business.. Certain of our service offerings use software that is subject to open-source licenses. Open-source code is software that is freely accessible, usable and modifiable; however, certain open-source code is governed by license agreements, the terms of which could require users of such software to make any derivative works of the software available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Because we use open-source code, we may be required to take remedial action in order to protect our proprietary software. Such action could include replacing certain source code used in our software, discontinuing certain of our products or taking other actions that could be expensive and divert resources away from our development efforts. In addition, the terms relating to disclosure of derivative works in many open-source licenses are unclear. If a court interprets one or more such open-source licenses in a manner that is unfavorable to us, we could be required to make certain of our key software available at no cost. Furthermore, open-source software may have security flaws and other deficiencies that could make our solutions less reliable and damage our business.. We may be unsuccessful at developing and maintaining strategic relationships with third parties that expand our distribution channels and increase revenue, which could significantly limit our long-term growth.. Achieving future success will likely require us to maintain and increase the number and depth of our relationships with resellers, systems integrators, product makers and other strategic partners and to leverage those relationships to expand our distribution channels and increase revenue. If we become reliant on a small number of large partners, any termination of our relationship with one of them could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. The need to develop such relationships can be particularly acute in areas outside of the U.S. We have not always been successful at developing these relationships due to the complexity of our services, our historical reliance on an internal sales force and other factors. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our technology and services and ensuring that they are compliant with our ethical expectations requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to expand and improve our portfolio of solutions as well as the systems, processes and procedures that support our channels. Those systems, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. The time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our channel partners to become familiar with our offerings, including our new services developments, may make it more difficult to introduce those products to enterprises. Our failure to maintain and increase the number and quality of relationships with channel partners, and any inability to successfully execute on the partnerships we initiate, could significantly impede our revenue growth prospects in the short and long term.. If the accounting estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may be adversely affected.. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments about, among other things, taxes, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation costs, capitalization of internal-use software development costs, investments, contingent obligations, allowance for doubtful accounts, intangible assets and restructuring charges. These estimates and judgments affect, among other things, the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our. 18. Table of Contents. estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges that could adversely affect our results of operations, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future that could adversely affect our reported financial results.. We may have exposure to greater-than-anticipated tax liabilities.. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items such as equity-related compensation. In particular, we do not yet know the full effect that the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and subsequent related regulations will have on our business and tax exposure assessment. We have recorded certain tax reserves to address potential exposures involving our income tax and sales and use tax positions. These potential tax liabilities result from the varying application of statutes, rules, regulations and interpretations by different jurisdictions. We are currently subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions including the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. If the outcome of such audit or other audits were to be adverse to us, our reserves may not be adequate to cover our total actual liability. Although we believe our estimates, our reserves and the positions we have taken are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. We have complied with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by assessing, strengthening and testing our system of internal controls. Even though we concluded our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report, we need to continue to maintain our processes and systems and adapt them to changes as our business evolves and we rearrange management responsibilities and reorganize our business. This continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure compliance with Section 404. Furthermore, as our business changes, including by expanding our operations in different markets, increasing reliance on channel partners and completing acquisitions, our internal controls may become more complex and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify material weaknesses, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price.. Any failure to meet our debt obligations would damage our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total par value of $690.0 million of convertible senior notes outstanding due in 2019. Our ability to refinance the notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the notes or repurchase the notes in the event of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes) will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the convertible senior notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. If we are unable to remain profitable or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness at such time could adversely affect our operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for additional capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes, we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to the stock of existing stockholders. If we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the notes, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, the terms of the notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in U.S. dollar terms.. An increasing portion of our revenue is derived from international operations. Revenue generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. As a result, our consolidated. 19. Table of Contents. U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-functional currencies. While we have implemented a foreign currency hedging program to mitigate transactional exposures, there is no guarantee that such program will be effective.. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties.. We have customer contracts with the U.S. government, as well as foreign, state and local governments and their respective agencies. Such government entities often have the right to terminate these contracts at any time, without cause. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Most of our government contracts are subject to legislative approval of appropriations to fund the expenditures under these contracts. These factors combine to potentially limit the revenue we derive from government contracts in the future. Additionally, government contracts generally have requirements that are more complex than those found in commercial enterprise agreements and therefore are more costly to comply with. Such contracts are also subject to audits and investigations that could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business.. Litigation may adversely impact our business.. From time to time, we are or may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including patent, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. In addition, under our charter, we could be required to indemnify and advance expenses to our directors and officers in connection with their involvement in certain actions, suits, investigations and other proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.. We are currently involved in litigation with one of our competitors, Limelight Networks, Inc., or Limelight, involving claims for patent infringement. Limelight has asserted that it is entitled to significant damages. While we challenge the basis of the underlying claims and amount of such assertions, if such action were to be decided against our favor and a court were to award Limelight significant damages, our business and financial condition would be adversely impacted.. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable and may not be covered by insurance, there can be no assurance that the results of the Limelight litigation or any of these other matters will not have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. General global market and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business has been and could continue to be affected by general global economic and market conditions. To the extent economic conditions impair our customers' ability to profitably monetize the content we deliver on their behalf, they may reduce or eliminate the traffic we deliver for them. Such reductions in traffic would lead to a reduction in our revenue. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure, customer loss, a deceleration in commerce over the Internet and corresponding decrease in traffic delivered over our network and failures by customers to pay amounts owed to us on a timely basis or at all. Suppliers on which we rely for servers, bandwidth, co-location and other services could also be negatively impacted by economic conditions that, in turn, could have a negative impact on our operations or expenses.. 20. Table of Contents. Global climate change and natural resource conservation regulations could adversely impact our business.. Our deployed network of servers consumes significant energy resources, including those generated by the burning of fossil fuels. In response to concerns about global climate change, governments may adopt new regulations affecting the use of fossil fuels or requiring the use of alternative fuel sources. While we have invested in projects to support renewable energy development, our customers, investors and other stakeholders may require us to take more steps to demonstrate that we are taking ecologically responsible measures in operating our business. The costs and any expenses we incur to make our network more energy efficient could make us less profitable in future periods. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other requirements imposed on us could lead to fines, lost revenue and damage to our reputation.. Because we currently do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to control or acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. • a classified board structure so that only approximately one-third of our Board of Directors is up for re-election in any one year;. • our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director;. • stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting; and. •our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us."
