[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses and may never generate profits from operations or maintain profitability.. Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our net loss was approximately $24.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and, without regard to the historical operating results of our predecessor, Biodel Inc., or Biodel, approximately $16.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. We had an accumulated deficit of $50.4 million as of December 31, 2017. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through issuances of shares of common stock, preference shares or convertible loan notes, upfront fees paid upon entering into or amending license agreements, payments received upon the achievement of specified milestone events under the license agreements, grants and venture debt borrowings. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials. We have not completed the development of any drugs, although our licensee, EA Pharma Co., Ltd. (formerly Ajinomoto Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd.), or EA Pharma, has received approval in Japan of our product candidate elobixibat to treat chronic constipation. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for at least the next few years as we continue our development of, and seek marketing approvals for, our product candidates, prepare for and begin the commercialization of any approved products, and add infrastructure and personnel to support our product development efforts and operations as a public company in the United States. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year.. Our ability to generate profits from operations and thereafter to remain profitable depends heavily on:. •  the scope, number, progress, duration, endpoints, cost, results and timing of clinical trials and nonclinical studies of our current or potential future product candidates, including in particular the scope, progress, duration, endpoints, cost, results and timing for initiation and completion of our planned Phase 3 clinical program for A4250 in patients with progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis, or PFIC;. •  our ability to raise sufficient funds to support the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates;. •  the outcomes and timing of regulatory reviews, approvals or other actions;. •  our ability to obtain marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  whether and to what extent events giving rise to payments to us are achieved under our royalty interest acquisition agreement, or RIAA, with HealthCare Royalty Partners III, L.P., or HCR, or our license agreement with EA Pharma or any potential future licensee or collaborator;. •  our ability to establish and maintain additional licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements on favorable terms and whether and to what extent we retain development or commercialization responsibilities under any new licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement;. •  the success of any other business, product or technology that we acquire or in which we invest;. •  our ability to maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio;. •  our ability to manufacture any approved products on commercially reasonable terms;. •  our ability to establish a sales and marketing organization or suitable third-party alternatives for any approved product; and. •  the number and characteristics of product candidates and programs that we pursue.. Based on our current plans, we do not expect to generate significant revenue from product sales unless and until we or a potential future licensee or collaborator obtains marketing approval for, and commercializes, one or more of our current or potential future product candidates (other than elobixibat as a treatment for chronic constipation in Japan), which we do not expect to occur until at least 2021, if at all.  Neither we nor a licensee may ever succeed in obtaining marketing approval for, or commercializing, our product candidates besides elobixibat as a treatment for chronic constipation in Japan and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to generate profits from operations. Even if we do generate profits from operations, we may not be able to. 35. sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to generate profits from operations and remain profitable would decrease our value and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in our value could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. Our operations to date have been limited to organization and staffing, developing and securing our technology, entering into licensing arrangements for elobixibat, raising capital and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates. Although our licensee, EA Pharma, has received approval in Japan of our product candidate elobixibat to treat chronic constipation, we have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully complete development of any product candidate, obtain marketing approval, manufacture a commercial scale product, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history.. Assuming we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we will need to transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and may not be successful in such a transition.. We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. We expect our research and development expenses to increase substantially in future periods, particularly as we advance the development of our product candidates in addition to A4250 as a treatment for patients with PFIC. In particular, we expect that our research and development expenses would increase if we conduct clinical trials of any or all of elobixibat for the treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, A3384 for the treatment of bile acid malabsorption, or BAM, A4250 for the treatment of additional pediatric cholestatic liver diseases and disorders, or any product candidate advanced in our preclinical program in NASH or we initiate additional preclinical programs for potential future product candidates. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates that are not then subject to licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements with third parties, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing. Furthermore, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company in the United States. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts.. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  the costs, design, duration and any potential delays of the planned clinical trial of A4250 that may result from, among other things, the factors described below under \"  -  The clinical trial designs, durations, endpoints and outcomes that will ultimately be required to obtain marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC patients are uncertain and, in any case, may vary among the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities outside of the United States and European Union. Based on feedback that we have received from the FDA and the EMA, we expect both regulatory authorities to place a greater emphasis on the totality of the data from our planned Phase 3 clinical trial, including secondary endpoints, than may generally be expected. As a result, there is risk that, even if the primary endpoint of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 for FDA evaluation purposes or for EMA evaluation purposes is met with statistical significance, the applicable regulatory authority may not find the overall results of our planned Phase 3 trial to be sufficient to support marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC, a symptom of PFIC such as pruritus or any other indication, and we may never receive marketing approval. Similar risks also apply for A3384, which is a product candidate for the treatment of BAM.\" and \"If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates, or entry into licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements, could be delayed or prevented.\";. •  the same factors that our ability to generate profits from operations and thereafter to remain profitable depend heavily on, as described above under \" -  We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses and may never generate profits from operations or maintain profitability.\";. •  the scope, number, progress, duration, cost, results and timing of clinical trials and nonclinical studies of our current or future product candidates;. 36. •  whether and to what extent milestone events are achieved under our license agreement with EA Pharma, our royalty interest acquisition agreement with HCR or any potential future licensee or collaborator;the outcomes and timing of regulatory reviews, approvals or other actions;. •  our ability to obtain marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  our ability to establish and maintain additional licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements on favorable terms and whether and to what extent we retain development or commercialization responsibilities under any new licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement;. •  the success of any other business, product or technology that we acquire or in which we invest;. •  our ability to maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio;. •  our ability to manufacture any approved products on commercially reasonable terms;. •  our ability to establish a sales and marketing organization or suitable third-party alternatives for any approved product;. •  the number and characteristics of product candidates and programs that we pursue;. •  the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies;. •  our need and ability to hire additional management and scientific and medical personnel;. •  the costs to operate as a public company in the United States, including the need to implement additional financial and reporting systems and other internal systems and infrastructure for our business;. •  market acceptance of our product candidates, to the extent any are approved for commercial sale; and. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments.. Conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data or results required to obtain marketing approval and achieve product sales. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial success. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of products that will not be commercially available for sale by us for at least the next few years, if at all. Accordingly, we will need to continue to rely on additional financing to achieve our business objectives. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The unavailability of additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, would have an adverse effect on your investment.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our investors, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements, grants and debt financings. We do not have any committed external source of funds. We filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, which was declared effective on December 5, 2017 and pursuant to which we registered for sale up to $125 million of any combination of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, rights, purchase contracts and/or units from time to time and at prices and on terms that we may determine, including up to $50 million of our common stock available for issuance pursuant to an at-the-market offering program sales agreement that we entered into with Cowen and Company, LLC, or Cowen, in October 2017. On January 29, 2018, we closed an underwritten public offering of 2,265,500 shares of our common stock, inclusive of the exercise of the underwriters' overallotment option, for gross proceeds of $74.8 million under the shelf registration statement.  Subsequently, we sold 728,862 shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of $25.0 million pursuant to the at-the-market offering program sales agreement.  As of March 1, 2018, approximately $25.2 million of securities remain available for issuance under the shelf registration statement, including up to $25.0 million of our common stock that we may offer and sell, from time to time at our discretion, through Cowen as our sales agent under the at-the-market offering program sales agreement. Under the sales agreement, Cowen may sell the shares by any method permitted by law deemed to be an \"at the market\" offering as defined in Rule 415 of the Securities Act.. We may seek to raise additional capital at any time. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a holder of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends or other distributions.. 37. If we raise additional funds through licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research and development programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings or other arrangements when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or the TCJA, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. This report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect us or purchasers of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, A4250, which we are developing initially for the treatment of patients with PFIC and potentially also for other pediatric cholestatic liver diseases and disorders. If we are unable to commercialize A4250 or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. A4250 is nearing initiation of Phase 3 clinical development. Elobixibat has been approved in Japan for the treatment of chronic constipation, but we will not receive revenues in respect of elobixibat in Japan unless and until HCR has received a specified amount under our RIAA.  Our other most advanced product candidates are in Phase 2 or earlier-stage development.. Our ability to generate product revenues, which may not occur for at least the next few years, if at all, will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of A4250 as a treatment for patients with PFIC. Our ability to generate product revenues may also depend on the successful development and commercialization of elobixibat to treat NASH or A3384 to treat BAM. The success of each of these product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. •  our ability to obtain additional capital, whether from our RIAA with HCR or our license agreement with EA Pharma for elobixibat, from potential future licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements or from any future offering of our debt or equity securities;. •  our ability to identify and enter into potential future licenses or other collaboration arrangements with third parties and the terms of the arrangements;. •  completion of clinical development with successful outcomes;. •  receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities;. •  establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;. •  obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity;. •  protecting our rights in our intellectual property portfolio;. •  establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;. •  generating commercial sales of A4250, elobixibat or A3384, as applicable, if and when approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others;. •  acceptance of A4250, elobixibat or A3384, as applicable, if and when approved, by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;. •  effectively competing with other therapies; and. •  maintaining an acceptable safety profile of A4250, elobixibat or A3384, as applicable, following approval.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize A4250, elobixibat or A3384, which would materially harm our business.. 38. If clinical trials of A4250 or any of our other product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, or the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, or do not otherwise produce favorable results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of the applicable product candidate.. In connection with obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical trials are expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and are uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials. In particular, the small number of subjects and patients in our early clinical trials may make the results of these clinical trials less predictive of the outcome of later clinical trials. The design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product, and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced or completed. There is no assurance that we will be able to design and execute a clinical trial to support marketing approval. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their products.. If we are required to conduct additional or longer clinical trials or other testing of A4250 or any of our other product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these clinical trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may:. •  be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  not obtain marketing approval at all;. •  obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as we intended or desired;. •  obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, including boxed warnings;. •  be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements or restrictions; or. •  have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval.. Following consultation with the FDA and EMA, we plan to use change in pruritus as the primary endpoint for purposes of FDA evaluation and as a key secondary endpoint for EMA evaluation in our planned Phase 3 trial in PFIC patients. Because the assessment of pruritus relies on subjective feedback, it is challenging to evaluate and measure consistently. Moreover, there is no clinical experience with the two outcome instruments that we will use in the trial and either may not be considered adequately reliable or valid for use in PFIC patients.. The primary endpoint in our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC, for FDA evaluation, and a key secondary endpoint for EMA evaluation, will be an assessment of change in pruritus. Because the assessment of pruritus relies on subjective caregiver feedback, it is challenging to evaluate and measure consistently and, for any patient, a caregiver-reported outcome may vary from the patient's self-reported outcome. The measure of pruritus can be influenced by factors outside of our control and can vary widely from measurement point to measurement point for a particular patient, from patient to patient and from site to site within a clinical trial. Moreover, patients given an inactive agent, or placebo, for comparison to A4250 in a clinical trial may perceive a change in pruritus that is greater than we anticipated when designing the trial or that is comparable to the change experienced by patients given A4250, which could obscure the effect of A4250 in the trial and reduce the likelihood that the trial will be successful.. We have developed caregiver-reported and patient-reported outcome instruments to assess pruritus in the planned Phase 3 PFIC trial. These outcome instruments, and the manner in which they will be analyzed, represent novel endpoints and measurement methodologies with which the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities have no experience.  The degree of novelty or other limitations of these endpoints and methodologies may impact the likelihood that our planned Phase 3 PFIC trial, or any other future clinical trial of A4250, will be successful or otherwise delay or prevent marketing approval of A4250.  In addition, we plan to establish the reliability and validity of the outcome instruments that we develop to meet applicable regulatory standards within, but not before, the planned Phase 3 trial.  The FDA or EMA may ultimately determine that either of these outcome instruments is not adequately reliable or valid for use with PFIC patients, whether because it was not applied by clinical investigators sufficiently consistently, was not sufficiently sensitive to detect varying degrees of pruritus, or for any other reason.  If this were to occur, our ability to obtain marketing approval for A4250 would be delayed and we may never obtain marketing approval for A4250.. 39. The clinical trial designs, durations, endpoints and outcomes that will ultimately be required to obtain marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC patients are uncertain and, in any case, may vary among the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities outside of the United States and European Union. Based on feedback that we have received from the FDA and the EMA, we expect both regulatory authorities to place a greater emphasis on the totality of the data from our planned Phase 3 clinical trial, including secondary endpoints, than may generally be expected. As a result, there is risk that, even if the primary endpoint of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 for FDA evaluation purposes or for EMA evaluation purposes is met with statistical significance, the applicable regulatory authority may not find the overall results of our planned Phase 3 trial to be sufficient to support marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC, a symptom of PFIC such as pruritus or any other indication, and we may never receive marketing approval. Similar risks also apply for A3384, which is a product candidate for the treatment of BAM.. No product is currently approved for the treatment of PFIC in the United States, the European Union or, to our knowledge, any other jurisdiction or for the treatment of BAM in the United States, and there is limited clinical experience in PFIC and in BAM. Accordingly, there is not a well-established development path that, with positive outcomes in clinical trials, would be reasonably assured of receiving marketing approval for these indications.. Our planned Phase 3 PFIC program includes a single randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter clinical trial and an open label long-term extension study. The double blind trial is designed to enroll approximately 60 patients with PFIC (type 1 or 2), ages six months to 18 years, at sites in the United States, Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Australia. Patients will be assigned to receive either 40 µg/kg/day or 120 µg/kg/day of A4250, or placebo, for 24 weeks. Patients taking a stable dose of medication to manage pruritus when entering the trial will be permitted to continue such background medication during the trial, subject to specified exceptions. The trial will have a primary endpoint for U.S. purposes, a different primary endpoint for E.U. purposes, and several secondary endpoints, including progression to surgery, change in growth markers and liver biochemistry variables, and others. The primary endpoint for FDA evaluation, and a key secondary endpoint for EMA evaluation, will be an assessment of change in pruritus using a proprietary tool that we have developed. The trial's primary endpoint for EMA evaluation, and a key secondary endpoint for FDA evaluation, will be serum bile acid responder rate, where a responder is a patient who achieves either a reduction in serum bile acid levels of 70% or more from baseline or a reduction in serum bile acid levels at least to an absolute level that is specified in between 50 and 100 µmol/l. Patients in the trial will have the opportunity to participate in the open label extension study to assess long-term safety and durability of response.. Based on feedback that we have received from the FDA and the EMA, we expect both regulatory authorities to place a greater emphasis on the totality of the data from our planned Phase 3 clinical trial, including secondary endpoints, than may generally be expected. As a result, there is risk that, even if the primary endpoint of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 for FDA evaluation purposes or for EMA evaluation purposes is met with statistical significance, the applicable regulatory authority may not find the overall results of our planned Phase 3 trial to be sufficient to support marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC, a symptom of PFIC such as pruritus or any other indication, and we may never receive marketing approval.. Furthermore, the FDA has informed us that showing a clinically meaningful effect only on pruritus could support approval for the treatment of pruritus associated with PFIC and has indicated to us that meaningful improvements on one or more additional clinical benefit endpoints and/or corroborative real-world clinical evidence would be required to support approval for the treatment of PFIC itself. Certain secondary endpoints that we expect to use in our planned Phase 3 trial may be considered clinical benefit endpoints, including progression to surgery and change in growth markers. The likelihood that a treatment duration of 24 weeks will be long enough for a placebo controlled trial to demonstrate an effect of A4250 on any particular clinical benefit endpoint is uncertain, and, if not, FDA approval of A4250 could be limited to the treatment of pruritus in PFIC patients, if A4250 is approved at all.. To support marketing approval of a drug, the FDA requires a demonstration of efficacy based on an endpoint reflecting clinical benefit. However, under Subpart H regulations, the FDA can grant accelerated approval based on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. If we elect to seek accelerated approval under Subpart H, the FDA (or EMA under its regulations) may determine that the surrogate endpoint, or that the outcome shown in the planned trial on the surrogate endpoint, does not establish a reasonable likelihood of predicting clinical benefit or otherwise is not sufficient to support approval, even if the surrogate endpoint is met with statistical significance. For example, if we pursue an accelerated approval of A4250 under Subpart H and the results of the change in pruritus endpoint are not of a magnitude that will be clearly meaningful, it is possible that the FDA will not consider the result to be sufficient to support approval under the Subpart H pathway. If this occurs, our business would be materially harmed.. In addition, if we pursue an accelerated approval under Subpart H for A4250, we will be required to conduct a post-approval clinical outcomes trial to confirm its clinical benefit in PFIC. Whether our planned open label extension study will meet this requirement is uncertain.  If not, and if we pursue accelerated approval under Subpart H, we would need to conduct an additional study, which is not currently planned. There can be no assurance that our open label extension study or any other post-approval trial that we conduct will confirm that the surrogate endpoint used for accelerated approval will eventually show an adequate correlation with clinical outcomes. If a clinical outcomes confirmatory trial that we conduct fails to show such adequate correlation, we may not be able to maintain any previously granted marketing approval for A4250 in PFIC that we may obtain.. 40. We have selected serum bile acid responder rate as the primary endpoint for purposes of EMA evaluation and as a key secondary endpoint for FDA evaluation. To support the clinical utility of reduction in serum bile acids in the treatment of patients with PFIC, we are supporting an independent study pooling and analyzing long-term PFIC patient data from a number of leading PFIC academic centers, which we refer to as the PFIC Study Group. Should the data that are being accumulated by the PFIC Study Group come to a different conclusion than we anticipate about the relationship of serum bile acids to beneficial clinical outcomes, the EMA or the FDA may determine the results of the Phase 3 PFIC study not to be adequate to support approval.. Also, it is possible that any marketing authorization we may receive in the future from the EMA for A4250 for the treatment of PFIC could be conditional on post-authorization studies and not be considered a full authorization. Our ability to obtain and maintain conditional marketing authorization in the European Union will be limited to specific circumstances and subject to several conditions and obligations, if obtained at all, including the completion of a clinical outcomes trial to confirm the clinical benefit of A4250 in PFIC. Conditional marketing authorizations based on incomplete clinical data may be granted for a limited number of listed medicinal products for human use, including products designated as orphan medicinal products under European Union law, if (1) the risk-benefit balance of the product is positive, (2) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. Specific obligations, including with respect to the completion of ongoing or new studies, and with respect to the collection of pharmacovigilance data, may be specified in the conditional marketing authorization. Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year, and may be renewed annually, if the risk-benefit balance remains positive, and after an assessment of the need for additional or modified conditions.. The FDA and EMA generally require two pivotal clinical trials to support marketing approval of a drug. It is our objective to conduct a single Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with PFIC that, together with data from a long-term, open label extension study, forms the primary support for applications for marketing approval of A4250 in both the United States and European Union for treatment of patients with PFIC. If the FDA or EMA requires us to conduct additional clinical trials beyond the ones that we currently contemplate in order to support marketing approval of A4250 to treat patients with PFIC in the United States or European Union, it would result in a more expensive and potentially longer development program for A4250 than we currently contemplate, which could delay our ability to generate product revenues with A4250, interfere with our ability to enter into any potential licensing or collaboration arrangements with respect to this program, cause our value to decline, and limit our ability to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to complete the planned pivotal program. Even though it is our objective to conduct a single Phase 3 trial of A4250 as the basis, together with safety data from an extension study to evaluate long-term outcomes, for an application for marketing approval for A4250 in PFIC, either the FDA or the EMA may require that we meet the primary endpoint or endpoints in the trial at a higher level of statistical significance than would otherwise be required for a trial to be successful, which would reduce the likelihood of a positive trial.. Likewise, if we conduct any future clinical trial designed to support marketing approval of A3384 as a treatment for BAM, the FDA, EMA or any regulatory authority outside of the United States or the European Union may determine that the designs or endpoints of the trial, or that the outcomes shown on any particular endpoints in the trial, are not sufficient to establish a clinically meaningful benefit for A3384 in the treatment of BAM or otherwise to support marketing approval, even if the primary endpoint or endpoints of the trial is met with statistical significance.. The design of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC does not conform precisely in all respects to the recommendations or preferences expressed by either the FDA or EMA.. Although the feedback on our proposed Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with PFIC that we have received from the FDA and EMA is generally consistent, it is not identical and the design of our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC does not conform precisely in all respects to the recommendations or preferences expressed by either regulatory authority. As a result, there is increased risk that, even if we view the results of our planned trial as favorable, the FDA or EMA may not find the overall results to be sufficient to support marketing approval of A4250 to treat PFIC, a symptom of PFIC such as pruritus or any other indication.. Favorable results seen to date in clinical trials of A4250, including our open label Phase 2 trial of A4250 in patients with cholestatic liver disease, may not be predictive of favorable results in our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC, which will be placebo controlled and involve different doses, treatment duration, number of patients and outcome measures and may have other differences in design or execution.. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials or in preclinical studies. Similarly, companies have experienced disappointing outcomes in later phases of a multiphase clinical trial, even after promising results in an early phase of the trial. A4250 has been evaluated in an open label Phase 2 trial in children with chronic cholestasis and pruritus and in an investigator-initiated Phase. 41. 2 clinical trial for the treatment of PBC. Data from our Phase 2 trial in children with chronic cholestasis and pruritus showed a reduction in serum bile acids in a substantial majority of patients and improvement in pruritus that was significantly correlated with the reduction in serum bile acids. In addition, based on data from the PBC trial that we received from the investigator, nine patients with pruritus received A4250 and all of them reported a reduction in pruritus. If the favorable findings on pruritus and serum bile acids seen in these two Phase 2 trials are not replicated in our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC or in any other future trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC or other pediatric cholestatic liver disease or disorder, we may not obtain marketing approval for A4250 to treat any indication, in which case our business would be materially and adversely affected.. Our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC will involve a greater number of patients, different outcome measures, doses and treatment duration and may have other differences in trial design, in addition to the difference in patient population, compared with either the prior pediatric chronic cholestasis trial or PBC trial. For example, our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 will be a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter, clinical trial designed to enroll approximately 60 patients with PFIC (type 1 or 2), with a treatment duration of 24 weeks. The primary endpoint for FDA evaluation, and a key secondary endpoint for EMA evaluation, will be an assessment of change in pruritus. The primary endpoint for EMA evaluation, and a key secondary endpoint for FDA evaluation, will be serum bile acid responder rate, where a responder is a patient who achieves either a reduction in serum bile acid levels of 70% or more from baseline or a reduction of serum bile acid levels at least to an absolute level that is specified in between 50 and 100 µmol/l. Although we have assessed the effects of A4250 on serum bile acids in prior clinical trials of A4250, we have not previously utilized this serum bile acid responder rate endpoint. Moreover, we do not have any prior data regarding the effect of a placebo in patients with PFIC on serum bile acid levels, pruritus or any other outcome variable to guide the planning for our planned Phase 3 PFIC trial, which increases the risk that the trial will not be powered adequately to show a statistically significant separation between A4250 and placebo.. Furthermore, the specific caregiver-reported or patient-reported measures used to assess change in pruritus can vary from trial to trial. For example, the pruritus scales that were used in the PBC trial are not the same as the scales used in our trial in children with chronic cholestasis and pruritus, except that the visual analogue scale of itching, known as VAS-itch, is common to both trials. To assess change in pruritus in our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC, we plan to use caregiver-reported and patient-reported outcome instruments that we have developed taking into account input from PFIC patients and their caregivers, which employ or rely on different questions or assessments, require a different outcome to establish a positive response or are otherwise different from the outcome instruments used in our Phase 2 trial in children with chronic cholestasis. The differences in these instruments may reduce the likelihood that data from the Phase 2 trials of A4250 in children with chronic cholestasis or in PBC patients will be predictive of favorable results in the planned Phase 3 PFIC trial.. In addition, although we expect that patients in the planned trial of approximately the same weight will receive the same total dose of A4250, any difference in relative weights between particular patients receiving the same total dose of A4250 will result in a difference in weight-factored doses between those patients. This may reduce the likelihood that data from the Phase 2 trial will be predictive of favorable results in our planned PFIC trial.. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC, our receipt of marketing approval for A4250 could be delayed or prevented.. Recruiting patients for orphan pediatric liver diseases is challenging.  We have previously experienced enrollment delays in our clinical trials of A4250 and are aware of at least one third-party clinical trial in PFIC patients that may be ongoing at the time of our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC. If we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in clinical trials of our product candidates, we may not be able to initiate or continue the clinical trials. In particular, if we experience enrollment delays in our planned Phase 3 trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC, our cash resources may not be sufficient to enable us to fund the trial to completion, which could cause our value to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing.. Potential clinical trial participants may not be adequately diagnosed or identified with the diseases that we are targeting and may not meet the inclusion criteria for our trials. PFIC and other pediatric cholestatic liver diseases or disorders for which we may develop A4250 is a rare disease or disorder with a limited patient population, which could result in slow enrollment of clinical trial participants. Further, there are only a limited number of specialist physicians that treat these diseases and disorders, and major clinical centers that treat these diseases and disorders are concentrated in a few geographic regions.. Patient enrollment is affected by many factors, including:. •  size of the target patient population;. •  severity of the disease or disorder under investigation;. •  eligibility criteria for the clinical trial in question;. 42. •  other clinical trials being conducted at the same time involving patients who have the disease or disorder under investigation;. •  perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study;. •  approval and availability of other therapies to treat the disease or disorder that is being investigated in the clinical trial;. •  willingness or unwillingness to participate in a placebo controlled clinical trial;. •  efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;. •  patient referral practices of physicians;. •  the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and. •  proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients.. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our planned clinical trials of A4250, or any of our other product candidates, would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether.. If the commercial opportunity in PFIC is smaller than we anticipate, or if A4250 receives approval to treat only a specific subpopulation of patients with PFIC or only a specific symptom of PFIC such as pruritus, our future revenue from A4250 may be adversely affected and our business may suffer.. If the size of the commercial opportunities in any of our target indications is smaller than we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve profitability and growth. We are developing A4250 initially as a treatment for patients with PFIC and potentially also as a treatment for patients with other pediatric cholestatic liver diseases and disorders. PFIC and these other diseases and disorders are each rare, with a limited patient population. Moreover, we expect that the addressable PFIC patient population for A4250 is only a subset of the overall patient population, specifically patients who have not yet received partial external biliary diversion, or PEBD, surgery or liver transplant surgery or patients who have had PEBD reversal surgery. We are not aware of any available patient registries for PFIC, and we rely on various estimates and assumptions to estimate the addressable PFIC population. In addition, there are different subtypes of PFIC and the beneficial effects of A4250 may vary among patients with different subtypes or among children of different ages. Our planned Phase 3 clinical trial will enroll patients with PFIC, type 1 or 2, but not PFIC, type 3. Based on FDA feedback, A4250 may ultimately receive regulatory approval, if at all, as a treatment for only the PFIC subtypes studied.  It is also possible that A4250 may ultimately receive regulatory approval, if at all, as a treatment for children with PFIC of some ages but not others. Moreover, we are using change in pruritus as the primary endpoint of our planned Phase 3 trial for purposes of FDA evaluation. The FDA has informed us that showing a clinically meaningful effect only on pruritus could support approval for the treatment of pruritus associated with PFIC and has indicated to us that meaningful improvements on one or more additional clinical benefit endpoints and/or corroborative real-world clinical evidence would be required to support approval for the treatment of PFIC itself. If the commercial opportunity in PFIC is smaller than we anticipate, whether because our estimates of the addressable patient population prove to be incorrect, because A4250 receives marketing approval, if at all, as a treatment for some but not all PFIC subtypes, for children of some ages but not others, for pruritus associated with PFIC but not PFIC itself or for any other reason, our future revenue from A4250 may be adversely affected and our business may suffer.. It is critical to our ability to grow and become profitable that we successfully identify patients with PFIC and any other rare cholestatic liver diseases and disorders that we may target in the future. Our projections of the number of people who have PFIC or our other potential target cholestatic liver diseases and disorders, as well as the subset who have the potential to benefit from treatment with A4250, are based on a variety of sources, including third-party estimates and analyses in the scientific literature, and may prove to be incorrect. Further, new information may emerge that changes our estimate of the prevalence of these diseases or the number of patient candidates for A4250. The effort to identify patients with PFIC or our other potential target indications is at an early stage, and we cannot accurately predict the number of patients for whom treatment might be possible. Additionally, the addressable patient population for A4250 may be limited or may not be amenable to treatment with A4250, and new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify or gain access to, which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business. Further, even if we obtain significant market share for A4250, we may never achieve profitability because the potential target patient population for A4250 is small.. 43. If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates, or entry into licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements, could be delayed or prevented.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval or commercialize our product candidates, including:. •  clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. •  the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. •  we may be unable to recruit and enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect any statistically significant treatment effects;. •  our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;. •  regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. •  we may experience delays in reaching, or we may fail to reach, agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;. •  we may have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or undesirable side effects;. •  regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. •  the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. •  the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; and. •  our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators, regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees to suspend or terminate the clinical trials.. For example, in March 2015, Ferring International Center S.A., or Ferring, stopped early two Phase 3 clinical trials of elobixibat that Ferring had been conducting pursuant to a now-terminated license agreement with us due to an issue related to the distribution of study drug to study sites that was unrelated to the performance of elobixibat. We were unable as a result of the stopping of the trials to obtain data for the total number of patients for which the trials were designed, and the abbreviated trials are not sufficient to support an application for marketing approval.. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or marketing approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant preclinical study or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, which may harm our business and results of operations.. The benefit of IBAT inhibition in the treatment for patients with PFIC or any of our other target indications is unproven, and we do not know whether we will be able to develop any products of commercial value for these indications.. A4250 is an ileal bile acid transporter, or IBAT, inhibitor. There is no marketed drug in the United States or Europe that relies on IBAT inhibition for the treatment of PFIC or any other indication for which we plan to develop A4250. Shire plc, or Shire, has reported that its product candidate for the treatment of PFIC and other rare liver diseases, SHP625, which has been reported to be an IBAT inhibitor, failed to meet the respective primary endpoints of Phase 2 clinical trials in multiple adult and pediatric indications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replicate or improve upon our findings from preclinical studies and early clinical trials in later-stage clinical trials of A4250 for the treatment of patients with PFIC or any of our other target indications or that our focus on IBAT inhibition as a medically useful mechanism of action will result in the development of a commercially viable drug that safely and effectively treats PFIC or any of our other target indications.. 44. If the FDA concludes that more clinical or nonclinical data than we currently anticipate is required to support the approval of A3384 for the treatment of BAM under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, the approval pathway for A3384 will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in either case may not be successful.. We expect that we may seek FDA approval for A3384 for the treatment of BAM through Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of a new drug application, or NDA, where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant, and for which the applicant has not received a right of reference, which could expedite the development program for A3384 by potentially decreasing the amount of clinical and preclinical data that we would need to generate in order to obtain FDA approval.  However, the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway does not preclude the possibility that additional clinical trials or nonclinical studies may be required; for example, for new indications where the applicant cannot rely on published literature or the FDA's finding of safety and effectiveness.  If the FDA requires more data to support the approval of A3384 to treat BAM than we currently anticipate, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for A3384, and complications and risks associated with A3384, would likely substantially increase. Moreover, if we are unable to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for any reason, new competitive products could reach the market more quickly than A3384, which would likely harm our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that A3384 will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain competitors and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may be required to change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. These requirements may give rise to patent litigation and mandatory delays in approval of our 505(b)(2) NDA for up to 30 months depending on the outcome of any litigation. It is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. In addition, even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to faster product development or earlier approval.  Moreover, even if A3384 is approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which A3384 may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products.. BAM is diagnosed by exclusion and the number of patients suffering from BAM has not been established with precision. If the actual number of patients is smaller than we estimate, we may not be able to recruit patients into our clinical trial in this indication in a timely manner or at all, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for A3384 to treat this condition.. BAM is typically diagnosed by excluding other potential causes of extreme diarrhea, and we are not aware of any patient registry or other method of establishing with precision the actual number of patients with BAM in any geography. The diagnostic method that is believed to be the best currently, the 75Se-Homocholic Acid Taurine test, is not available in many countries and evaluation of bile acid synthesis markers, such as FGF19, and the bile acid intermediate C4 is not a routine diagnostic test. Instead, it is common currently to assess the effect of cholestyramine to confirm the diagnosis of BAM. We estimate the prevalence of BAM to be approximately 1.3 million people in the United States and approximately 2.2 million people in the European Union. We derive our estimated prevalence from a reported estimate of the prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea, or IBS-D, and published third-party studies that suggest approximately one-third of IBS-D patients have BAM. If the estimates on which we have relied are not accurate or if the results of studies on which we have relied are outdated, our estimate of the number of patients with BAM may be inaccurate, we may not be able to recruit patients into any future clinical trial of A3384 in BAM in a timely manner, or at all, and the commercial opportunity for A3384 may be smaller than we anticipate.. If serious or unacceptable side effects are identified during the development of A4250, elobixibat or A3384 or any other product candidate, we may need to abandon or limit our development of that product candidate.. All of our product candidates are in clinical or preclinical development (other than elobixibat for chronic constipation, which has been approved in Japan) and their risk of failure is high. It is impossible to predict when or if any of our product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive marketing approval. If our product candidates are associated with undesirable side effects or have other unexpected, unacceptable characteristics, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many investigational products that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause side effects or other safety issues that prevented further development.. 45. For example, the investigator for the investigator-initiated Phase 2 clinical trial of A4250 in PBC determined to conclude the trial prior to its intended completion, citing gastrointestinal (GI) side effects. If the GI side effects cited by the investigator in the PBC trial are predictive of an inadequate tolerability profile of A4250, the overall commercial opportunity for A4250 may be lower than we expect. Even if we receive regulatory approval for A4250, if the approved dose of A4250 is not well tolerated, A4250 may not achieve market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors or others in the medical community, which would materially and adversely affect our business.. Even if A4250, elobixibat or A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours receives marketing approval, it may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. If A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours receives marketing approval, the approved product may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. If an approved product does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or any profits from operations. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  the efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments or competitive products;. •  the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  whether physicians will be willing to prescribe A4250 to patients with PFIC notwithstanding that the primary endpoint in our planned Phase 3 clinical trial of A4250 in patients with PFIC is change in pruritus (FDA) or serum bile acid responder rate (EMA), as opposed to a direct measure of reducing or eliminating progressive liver disease;. •  the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices;. •  convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments;. •  the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;. •  the strength of marketing and distribution support;. •  the adequacy of supply of our product candidates;. •  the availability of third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement;. •  the timing of any such marketing approval in relation to other product approvals;. •  support from patient advocacy groups; and. •  any restrictions on concomitant use of other medications.. Our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain third-party coverage and reimbursement for our product candidates may be affected by political, economic and regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions. Governments continue to impose cost containment measures, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medicines and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. These and other similar developments could significantly limit the degree of market acceptance of A4250, elobixibat or A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours that receives marketing approval.. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell A4250 or any of our other current or potential future product candidates, we may not be successful in commercializing the applicable product candidate if it receives marketing approval.. We do not have a sales or marketing infrastructure and have limited experience as a company in the sale or marketing of pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must either develop a sales and marketing organization or outsource these functions to third parties. If we receive marketing approval in the United States or Europe for A4250 to treat PFIC or any other pediatric cholestatic liver disease or disorder, we plan to build the capabilities to commercialize A4250 in the approved indication(s) in the applicable region with our own focused, specialized sales force. Outside of the United States and Europe, we plan to selectively utilize collaboration, distribution or other marketing arrangements with third parties to commercialize A4250. Also, we intend to selectively seek licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements to assist us in furthering the development or commercialization of product candidates, such as A3384, targeting large primary care markets that must be served by large sales and marketing organizations. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into. 46. arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include:. •  our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. •  the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;. •  the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. •  unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products to treat our target indications or markets before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our current product candidates and any products we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide.. Competitors may also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining approvals from regulatory authorities and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies that may be complementary to or necessary for our programs.. Our commercial opportunities could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, safer, have fewer or less severe side effects, are approved for broader indications or patient populations, or are more convenient or less expensive than any products that we develop and commercialize. Our competitors may also obtain marketing approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our products, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.. In particular, we are aware of other companies that are developing product candidates that, like our product candidates A4250 and elobixibat, act via IBAT inhibition.  Shire's SHP625, also known as maralixibat and formerly known as LUM001, is currently being studied in an open label Phase 2 clinical trial in PFIC, and we believe that Shire plans to initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial of SHP625 as a treatment for PFIC in or about March 2018.  The FDA has granted breakthrough therapy designation for Shire's SHP625 for PFIC, type 2. We believe that SHP625 is also in Phase 2 development as a treatment for ALGS.   In addition, we believe that Shire's SHP626 is in Phase 2 development as a treatment for NASH and GlaxoSmithKline's GSK2330672, which GlaxoSmithKline has announced an intent to divest, is at the Phase 2 clinical development stage as a treatment for pruritus in patients with PBC.. 47. If approved, our product candidates will compete for a share of the existing market with numerous other products. We believe that the primary competitive products for use in indications that we are currently targeting with our most advanced product candidates include the following.. •  For PFIC and many other cholestatic liver diseases, there are currently no approved drug treatments. First-line treatment for PFIC is typically off-label ursodeoxycholic acid, or UDCA, which is approved in the United States and elsewhere for the treatment of PBC. PFIC patients often require surgical intervention such as PEBD surgery or liver transplant. As noted above, we believe Shire plans to conduct Phase 3 clinical development of SHP625 in PFIC. In addition, we believe that Intercept Pharmaceuticals' obeticholic acid, which is approved in the United States in combination with UDCA, or as a monotherapy for patients unable to tolerate UDCA, to treat PBC, may be in Phase 2 development as a treatment for biliary atresia.. •  For the pruritus that is characteristic of many cholestatic liver diseases, symptomatic off-label treatment with: UDCA; bile acid sequestrants, such as generic cholestyramine (as Questran in the United States and as Colestyr, Efensol, Ipocol, Kolestran, Lipocol, Olestyr, Prevalite or Quantalan in various other countries), marketed by Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc., Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. and Sandoz, the generic pharmaceuticals division of Novartis AG; rifampin, an antibiotic derivative; or naltrexone, an opioid antagonist.. •  For NASH, there are currently no approved drug treatments.  There are several marketed therapeutics that are currently used off-label for the treatment of NASH, such as vitamin E (an antioxidant), insulin sensitizers (e.g., metformin), antihyperlipidemic agents (e.g., gemfibrozil), pentoxifylline and UDCA, but none has been clearly shown in clinical trials to demonstrate a significant reversal in liver fibrosis.  Product candidates believed to be in Phase 3 clinical development in NASH include Intercept's obeticholic acid, Genfit SA's PPAR alpha/delta agonist (elafibranor), Gilead Sciences, Inc.'s ASK-1 inhibitor (selonsertib) and Allergan plc's dual CCR2 and CCR5 inhibitor (cenicriviroc).  There are many other product candidates believed to be in Phase 2 clinical development in NASH, including Shire's IBAT inhibitor SHP626.. •  For chronic constipation: linaclotide, a guanylate cyclase-C agonist, is marketed by Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Allergan as Linzess in the United States and as Constella (for the treatment of a related condition, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, or IBS-C) in Europe.  Linaclotide is also marketed by Astellas Pharma Inc. as Linzess in Japan for the treatment of IBS-C; lubiprostone, a type-2 chloride channel marketed as Amitiza by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited in the United States and select countries in Europe and by Mylan N.V. in Japan; prucalopride, a motility agent marketed by Shire in the European Union as Resolor; and numerous over the counter products, including psyllium husk (such as Metamucil), methylcellulose (such as Citrucel), calcium polycarbophil (such as FiberCon), lactulose (such as Cephulac), polyethylene glycol (such as MiraLax), sennosides (such as Exlax), bisacodyl (such as Ducolax), docusate sodium (such as Colace), magnesium hydroxide (such as Milk of Magnesia), saline enemas (such as Fleet) and sorbitol.. •  In addition, Synergy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has a product candidate known as plecanatide, a guanylate cyclase-C agonist marketed as Trulance, which is approved in the United States to treat CIC and IBS-C. Ardelyx, Inc. has a product candidate, tenapanor, a sodium transporter NHE3 inhibitor for which it has completed Phase 3 clinical development in IBS-C.. •  For BAM, there is currently no approved drug treatment in the United States. Off-label treatments include: bile acid sequestrants, such as conventional cholestyramine (which is approved in some countries in Europe to treat diarrhea associated with certain GI conditions), colestipol and colesevelam, a cholesterol-lowering medicine marketed by Daiichi Sankyo Inc. as Welchol in the United States and by Genzyme Europe B.V. as Cholestagel in the European Union. In addition, obeticholic acid has previously been studied by Intercept in a Phase 2 clinical trial as a treatment for BAM.. Patients with BAM following ileal resection surgery may be treated with a low-fat diet supplemented with medium-chain triglycerides or cholylsarcosine, a synthetic cholic acid conjugate. Patients with BAM secondary to Crohn's ileitis may be treated with glucocorticoid, a steroid hormone. Microscopic colitis patients may be given budesonide, a glucocorticoid steroid. Patients with BAM secondary to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth may require antibiotic therapy.. Even if we are able to commercialize A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any other product candidate that we develop, the product may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing, coverage and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted and, in some markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted.. 48. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.. Our ability to commercialize A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any other product candidate successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. and E.U. healthcare industries and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any other product that we commercialize and, if coverage and reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Obtaining and maintaining adequate reimbursement for A4250 may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices typically associated with drugs directed at smaller populations of patients. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement of a higher priced drug, and any launch of a competitive product is likely to create downward pressure on the price initially charged. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to a limited degree, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, intellectual property, manufacturing, sale and distribution expenses. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. In the United States, third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. In the European Union, reference pricing systems and other measures may lead to cost containment and reduced prices. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Governments outside the United States tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any.. In some countries, particularly the member states of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. In addition, there can be considerable pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various E.U. member states and parallel distribution, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. In some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial or other studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies in order to obtain or maintain reimbursement or pricing approval. Publication of discounts by third-party payors or authorities may lead to further pressure on prices or reimbursement levels within the country of publication and other countries. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected.. 49. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk with respect to commercial sales of any products that we may develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  reduced resources of our management to pursue our business strategy;. •  decreased demand for any products that we may develop;. •  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants or sites;. •  significant costs to defend the related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients;. •  loss of revenue;. •  increased insurance costs; and. •  the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.. We have separate liability insurance policies that cover each of our clinical trials, as well as a global product/clinical trial policy. These policies provide coverage in varying amounts, with the global policy having a per occurrence and aggregate limit of $10 million. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We will need to increase our insurance coverage when and if we begin conducting more expansive clinical development of, or commercializing, A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate and fail to capitalize on product candidates that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on specific product candidates. Currently, we are focusing our resources predominantly on A4250.  As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with elobixibat, A3384 or potential future product candidates that later could prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates may not yield any commercially viable products.. We have historically based our research and development efforts on IBAT inhibitors, including A4250 and elobixibat, to treat cholestatic liver diseases and CIC and on our proprietary formulations of an established bile acid sequestrant, A3384, to treat BAM. Notwithstanding our investment to date and anticipated future investment, we have not yet developed, and may never successfully develop, any marketed drugs using these approaches. As a result of pursuing the development of product candidates using our proprietary technologies, we may fail to develop product candidates or address indications based on other scientific approaches that may offer greater commercial potential or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development.. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through licensing, collaboration or other royalty or similar arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate.. 50. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We rely on EA Pharma for the successful commercialization of elobixibat to treat chronic constipation in Japan and for the successful development and commercialization of elobixibat to treat chronic constipation in other select markets in Asia. If EA Pharma does not successfully commercialize elobixibat in Japan, we may not receive any future payments under our RIAA with HCR or our license agreement with EA Pharma.. We entered into a license agreement with EA Pharma (formerly known as Ajinomoto Pharmaceuticals) for elobixibat in April 2012. In January 2018, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or MHLW, approved a new drug application filed by EA Pharma for elobixibat for the treatment of chronic constipation.  EA Pharma plans to co-market elobixibat in Japan with another company, Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, or Mochida, and to co-promote elobixibat in Japan with Eisai Co., Ltd.. In December 2017, we entered into the RIAA pursuant to which we sold to HCR our right to receive all royalties and sales milestones for elobixibat in Japan that may become payable by EA Pharma pursuant to our license agreement, up to a specified maximum amount, or cap amount, equal to 175% of the amount paid by HCR to us under the RIAA plus certain patent-related expenses (if such patent-related expenses become payable by HCR). Under the RIAA, we have received $45 million from HCR and we are eligible to receive an additional $15 million if a specified sales milestone is achieved for elobixibat in Japan. The RIAA also provides that, if the cap amount is reached, we will again become eligible to receive royalties and sales milestones for elobixibat from EA Pharma under the terms of our license agreement. If EA Pharma does not successfully commercialize elobixibat in Japan, we may not receive any future payments under our RIAA with HCR or our license agreement with EA Pharma.. EA Pharma is responsible for all commercialization of elobixibat in its licensed field (namely, all prophylactic or therapeutic uses of a pharmaceutical product for gastrointestinal diseases and disorders, symptoms of constipation of all causes or postoperative ileus, in colonoscopy cleansing procedures and, in specified circumstances, select liver diseases) in Japan and for all future development and commercialization of elobixibat in its licensed field in Indonesia, Korea, Myanmar, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, and has substantial control over the conduct and timing of development efforts with respect to elobixibat in these countries. We have little control over the amount and timing of resources that EA Pharma devotes, or Mochida devotes, to the commercialization of elobixibat in Japan or to the development of elobixibat in these other countries. If EA Pharma or, where applicable, Mochida fails to devote sufficient financial and other resources, the commercialization of elobixibat in Japan and the development and potential commercialization of elobixibat otherwise in EA Pharma's licensed territory would be adversely affected. If this occurs but the cap amount under the RIAA were nevertheless reached, royalties that we could receive on any future elobixibat product sales could be delayed or reduced.. EA Pharma has the right to terminate the elobixibat agreement on a country-by-country basis or in its entirety for an uncured material breach by us or in specified bankruptcy or similar events. EA Pharma also has the right, with 180 days' notice, to terminate the agreement in its entirety or on a country-by-country basis (except for Japan) for any reason.. If EA Pharma terminates the elobixibat agreement at any time, for any reason, it would negatively impact both the likelihood that we would receive any future payments under our RIAA with HCR or our license agreement with EA Pharma and the development of elobixibat in EA Pharma's licensed territory outside of Japan, would materially harm our business and could accelerate our need for additional capital. In particular, we would be required to seek a replacement licensee for Japan under the RIAA.. If we do not pursue the development and potential commercialization of elobixibat for the treatment of CIC in the United States or Europe, whether through a licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement or otherwise, the revenue that we will generate based on elobixibat may be lower.. We have commercial rights to elobixibat in the United States, Europe and otherwise outside of the territories licensed to EA Pharma.  We do not have any current plan to seek a license or other partnering transaction with a third party for elobixibat for CIC in the United States or Europe.  The cost and duration of the additional clinical trial or trials that would be required by the FDA and EMA to support marketing approval of elobixibat to treat CIC is currently uncertain. Even if we were to seek to establish licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement with a third party for the United States or Europe, the uncertain regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. We do not anticipate that we will conduct future clinical trials of elobixibat in CIC for the United States or Europe independently, whether or not we elect to seek a suitable third-party arrangement. If we do not enter into suitable third-party arrangements and do not ourselves conduct clinical trials of elobixibat in CIC for the United States or Europe, the revenue that we will generate based on elobixibat in CIC will be limited to future payments that we receive, if any, under our agreements with HCR and EA Pharma, which will reduce the overall commercial potential of elobixibat and may harm our business.. 51. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials.. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and government agencies, to perform this function. Any of these third parties may terminate their engagements with us at any time. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, it would delay our product development activities.. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity of data and confidentiality of clinical trial participants are protected. We are also required to register clinical trials subject to FDA regulation and, with some exceptions, post the results of completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database, www.ClinicalTrials.gov, within certain timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. The National Institutes of Health also has announced plans to require sponsors to post results of clinical trials for unapproved products, including unfavorable results in clinical trials for unapproved uses of approved products.. Furthermore, third parties that we rely on for our clinical development activities may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or obtaining marketing approvals.. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. Use of third parties to manufacture our product candidates may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or products or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial supplies of our product candidates. We have limited personnel with experience in drug manufacturing and lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We currently rely on third parties for supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, in our product candidates. Our strategy is to outsource all manufacturing of our product candidates and products to third parties.. We do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term clinical or commercial supply of any of our product candidates. We currently engage a single third-party manufacturer to provide API for A4250 and elobixibat. We also currently engage single third-party manufacturers to provide fill and finish services for the final drug product formulation of each of our product candidates in development. We may in the future be unable to conclude agreements for commercial supply with third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms, or at all.. Even if we are able to establish and maintain arrangements with third-party manufacturers, reliance on third-party manufacturers entails additional risks, including:. •  reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;. •  the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party;. •  the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how; and. •  the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us.. Third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, laboratory testing, quality control or quality assurance or suffer shortages of qualified personnel, any of which could result in our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet clinical timelines for a particular product candidate, to obtain marketing approval for the product candidate or to commercialize the product candidate. In addition, third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with current good. 52. manufacturing practice, or GMP, regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates.. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing for us.. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture product for our preclinical tests and clinical trials cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis.. We may depend on additional collaborations, licenses or similar arrangements with third parties for the development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.. We have licensed rights to develop and commercialize elobixibat for CIC and other gastrointestinal diseases and disorders to EA Pharma in Japan and other select markets in Asia. We may in the future enter into other licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements for the development and commercialization of A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours for any or all indications and for any or all territories, except for the rights currently subject to EA Pharma's license with respect to elobixibat.. Our likely counterparties for any licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement include large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Except for our agreement with EA Pharma, we are not currently party to any such arrangement for A4250, elobixibat or A3384. However, if we do enter into any such arrangements with any third parties in the future, we will likely have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of the applicable product candidate. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.. Any licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement involving our product candidates would pose numerous risks to us, including the following:. •  collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations and may not perform their obligations as expected;. •  collaborators may deemphasize or not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus, including as a result of a sale or disposition of a business unit or development function, or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;. •  collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. •  collaborators may independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;. •  a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to multiple products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of our product relative to other products;. 53. •  collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. •  collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;. •  disputes may arise between us and a collaborator as to the ownership of intellectual property arising during the collaboration;. •  we may grant exclusive rights to our collaborators, which would prevent us from collaborating with others or make us a less attractive collaboration partner by narrowing the scope of potential collaborations into which we may enter;. •  disputes may arise between us and a collaborator that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our products or product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and. •  collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need to identify and enter into a new licensing, collaboration or similar arrangement or obtain additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.. For example, in March 2015, Ferring terminated a 2012 license agreement with us for the development and commercialization of elobixibat worldwide, excluding the territory licensed to EA Pharma. Ferring's termination of the license agreement followed its stopping early two Phase 3 clinical trials of elobixibat that Ferring had been conducting due to an issue related to the distribution of study drug to study sites that was unrelated to the performance of elobixibat. As a result, to exploit the potential of elobixibat in CIC in the United States, Europe and otherwise outside of EA Pharma's licensed territory, we would need to either identify and enter into additional licensing, collaboration or similar arrangements or expend our own resources to conduct further development of elobixibat. We do not have any current plan to seek a license or other partnering transaction with a third party for elobixibat in CIC in the United States or Europe.  Whether or not we elect to seek such a transaction, we do not anticipate that we will conduct future clinical trials of elobixibat in CIC independently.. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program could be delayed, diminished or terminated.. If we are not able to establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans.. Our product development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates.. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by regulatory authorities, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. We may also be restricted under future license agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators.. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail the development of a product candidate, reduce or delay our development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay our potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense.  If we do not have sufficient funds, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market and generate product revenue.. 54. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States, in Europe and in certain additional jurisdictions related to our novel technologies and product candidates that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, if we license technology or product candidates from third parties in the future, these license agreements may not permit us to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain or enforce the patents, covering the licensed technology or product candidates. These agreements could also give our licensors the right to enforce the licensed patents without our involvement, or to decide not to enforce the patents at all. Therefore, in these circumstances, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted or enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents, narrow the scope of our patent protection or make enforcement more difficult or uncertain.. The laws of other countries may not protect our patent rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than U.S. law does. For this or other reasons, we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets or may not obtain protection that enables us to prevent the entry of third parties onto the market.. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, currently, the first to file a patent application is generally entitled to the patent. However, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent was entitled to the patent. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our U.S. patents or pending U.S. patent applications filed prior to March 16, 2013.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, reissue, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings, court litigation or International Trade Commission proceedings, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation concerning our patent rights could reduce the scope of or prevent the enforceability of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allowing third parties to commercialize our technology or products, or equivalent or similar technology or products, and so to compete directly with us, without payment to us, or, where such proceedings involve third-party patents, result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened or narrowed by operation of any of the foregoing, such an event could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or potential future product candidates of ours.. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with adequate protection to prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise to provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar, improved or alternative technologies or products in a noninfringing manner. For example, although A3384 is the subject matter of pending patent applications that claim pharmaceutical formulations, patent protection is not available for composition-of-matter claims that only recite the API for A3384 without limitation to its formulation. Because A3384 lacks composition-of-matter protection for its API, competitors will, subject to obtaining marketing approval, be able to offer and sell products with the same API so long as these competitors do not infringe any of our issued patents. Moreover, method-of-treatment patent claims are more difficult to enforce than composition-of-matter claims for reasons including off-label sale, potential divided infringement issues and use of the subject compound in noninfringing manners. Physicians are permitted to prescribe an approved product for uses that are not described in the product's labeling. Although off-label prescriptions may infringe our method-of-treatment patents, the practice is common across medical specialties and such infringement is difficult to. 55. prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. In addition, if a third party were able to design around our dosage-form and formulation patents and create a different formulation and dosage form that is not covered by our patents or patent applications, we would likely be unable to prevent that third party from manufacturing and marketing our product.. In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity that we obtain under applicable legislation, such as orphan drug exclusivity in the United States, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Legal and regulatory developments in the European Union and elsewhere may also result in clinical trial data submitted as part of a marketing authorization application becoming publicly available. Such developments could enable other companies to use our clinical trial data to assist in their own product development and to obtain marketing authorizations in the European Union and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain our patents.. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Future changes in U.S. statutory or case law beyond our control could affect some or all of the foregoing possibilities. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. This could be the case even after giving effect to patent term extensions and data exclusivity provisions preventing third parties from relying on clinical trial data filed by us for marketing approval in support of their own applications for such approval. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. We may become involved in lawsuits or other enforcement proceedings to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and potentially unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property or that our patent and other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, including for antitrust reasons. As a result, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court or administrative body may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, or may construe the patent's claims narrowly and so refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the competitor technology in question. Even if we are successful in a patent infringement action, the unsuccessful party may subsequently raise antitrust issues and bring a follow-on action. Antitrust issues may also provide a bar to settlement or constrain the permissible settlement terms. Further, settlement agreements in the pharmaceutical sector are the subject of ongoing review by the antitrust authorities in the European Union.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our current or potential future licensees or collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the intellectual property and other proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference, derivation, inter partes review, reexamination, reissue or post-grant review proceedings before the USPTO. The risks of being involved in such litigation and office proceedings may also increase as our product candidates approach commercialization, and as our business gains greater visibility operating as a publicly traded company in the United States. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing or future intellectual property rights and so restrict our freedom to operate. Third parties may also seek injunctive relief against us, whereby they would attempt to prevent us from practicing our technologies altogether pending outcome of any litigation against us. We may not be aware of all such intellectual property rights potentially relating to our product candidates prior to their assertion against us. For example, we have not conducted an in depth freedom-to-operate search or analysis for A4250, for elobixibat as a treatment for NASH or for A3384. Any freedom-to-operate search or analysis previously conducted may not have uncovered all relevant patents and pending patent applications, and there may be pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing A4250, elobixibat or A3384. Thus, we do not know with certainty whether A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any other product candidate, or our commercialization of any such product candidate, does not and will not infringe any third party's intellectual property.. 56. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, or in order to avoid or settle litigation, we could be required to obtain a license to enable us to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be nonexclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies that we have then licensed, and could require us to make substantial payments. Absent a license, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties, or claims that we derived inventions from another, could have a similar negative impact on our business.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary or otherwise confidential information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have without authorization used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary or confidential information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while we typically require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us and agreeing to cooperate and assist us with securing and defending our intellectual property, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. These assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development, sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Accordingly, costs and lost management time, as well as uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar legislation outside of the United States by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed.. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA marketing approval of A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or potential future product candidates of ours, if any, one or more of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term restoration under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, we may not be granted an extension if, for example, we fail to apply within applicable deadlines, we fail to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or if we otherwise fail to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, the period during which we will have the right to exclusively market our products will be shortened and our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. In the event that we are unable to obtain any patent term extension, the issued U.S. composition of matter patent for A4250 is expected to expire in 2022 assuming it withstands any challenge. In the. 57. event that we are unable to obtain any patent term extension, the issued U.S. composition of matter patent for elobixibat is expected to expire in 2022, assuming it withstands any challenge. We expect that the other U.S. patents and patent applications for A4250 and elobixibat, if issued, and if the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, would expire from 2031 to 2035. We also expect that our patent applications for A3384, which to date have been filed as PCT applications being initially nationalized in the United States or as priority applications in Sweden, if ultimately issued in the United States and if the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, would expire in 2037 or 2038.. If EA Pharma does not obtain protection under applicable law in Japan by extending one or more of the patent terms for elobixibat, the period during which we may receive royalties will be shorter than it could otherwise be and our business may be materially harmed.. One or more of our patents in Japan may be eligible for limited patent term restoration. The Japanese Pharmaceutical Affairs Law generally permits the extension of the patent term for a drug as compensation for patent term lost during the regulatory review process in Japan. However, we may not be granted an extension if, for example, we fail to apply within applicable deadlines, we fail to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or if we otherwise fail to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request.  If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, the period during which EA Pharma will have the right to exclusively market elobixibat in Japan will be shortened, competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration and our royalty revenue could be reduced, possibly materially. In the event that we are unable to obtain any patent term extension, the issued composition of matter patent for elobixibat in Japan is expected to expire in 2021 and the issued patent for a method of using an IBAT inhibitor to treat CIC or IBS in Japan is expected to expire in 2024, in each case assuming it withstands any challenge. We expect that the other Japanese patents and patent applications in respect of elobixibat or its use in the treatment of chronic constipation, if issued and the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, would expire from 2034 to 2035.  Additionally, under the Japanese Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, an application for approval of a generic version of an approved drug cannot be filed during a specified post-approval reexamination period.  The current reexamination period for elobixibat is expected to be eight years.. A3384 could be subject to competition arising from off-label use from conventional cholestyramine.. We have pending PCT patent applications covering pharmaceutical formulations of A3384. Even if these patents ultimately issue in the United States or elsewhere, we do not have patent rights covering the composition of matter of cholestyramine. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to prevent others from exploiting cholestyramine, which could have a negative impact on the commercial potential of A3384. In addition, cholestyramine is currently approved in the United States and some countries in Europe for various indications, including in some countries in Europe for diarrhea associated with certain GI conditions. Physicians currently prescribe cholestyramine for other indications that are not approved by the FDA or regulatory authorities outside of the United States, such as BAM. If we are unable to establish that A3384 is a superior drug to conventional cholestyramine in the treatment of BAM, physicians may be likely to continue to prescribe conventional cholestyramine and our potential future revenue from sales of A3384 would likely be materially and adversely affected.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary and confidential information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. However, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or that the agreements we have executed will provide adequate protection. Any party with whom we have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary or confidential information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate the trade secret, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets, particularly unpatented know-how, were to be obtained or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. 58. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Our Product Candidates. A rare pediatric disease designation may not lead to the receipt of a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher, even if A4250 is approved.. The FDA has awarded rare pediatric disease priority review vouchers, or PRVs, to sponsors of drug products intended to treat rare pediatric disease products if the treatment and product application meet certain criteria. Under this program, upon the approval of a qualifying NDA or biologics license application, BLA, for the treatment or prevention of a rare pediatric disease, the sponsor of the application may be eligible for a PRV that can be used to obtain priority review for a subsequent NDA or BLA. The PRV may be sold or transferred an unlimited number of times. We anticipate that we will request rare pediatric disease designation for A4250 for PFIC.  In order to obtain a rare pediatric disease designation for A4250, we must demonstrate to FDA's satisfaction that this indication is a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States and is a serious or life-threatening disease that primarily affects individuals aged from birth to 18 years, including age groups often called neonates, infants, children and adolescents. There can be no assurance, however, that the FDA will agree with our position that PFIC meets the criteria for a \"rare pediatric disease.\" Likewise, if A4250 is ultimately approved by the FDA to treat only certain PFIC subtype(s) or a symptom of PFIC, such as pruritus, rather than PFIC itself, there is no assurance that the FDA will agree that the approved indication meets the criteria for a rare pediatric disease. If we submit a voluntary request for a rare pediatric disease designation and the request is granted by FDA, the FDA's rare pediatric disease designation would give us the potential to receive a PRV if A4250 is approved for marketing. The PRV program is now set to expire at the end of September 2020, although a drug that has been designated under the program as of September 30, 2020 may still receive a PRV if it is approved for marketing before October 1, 2022.  Therefore, there is no guarantee that we will receive a PRV for A4250 even if it is approved by the FDA to treat a rare pediatric disease.. If prior to any marketing approval in the European Union of A4250 to treat PFIC, Shire's SHP625 is approved in the European Union to treat PFIC and at the time of approval maintains its designation as an orphan medicinal product, and if A4250 is deemed to be a similar medicinal product, within the meaning of E.U. law, to SHP625, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval of A4250 in the European Union for a significant period of time.  In addition, A4250 may not be entitled to orphan drug exclusivity for A4250 in the United States or European Union notwithstanding its current orphan designation.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the United States and European Union, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA has granted orphan drug designation to A4250, which is an IBAT inhibitor, for the treatment of PFIC, as well as PBC, and the EMA has designated A4250 as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of PFIC, as well as PBC and ALGS.  Shire's SHP625, which has also been reported to be an IBAT inhibitor, has also been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and as an orphan medicinal product by the EMA.. Generally, if a designated orphan medicinal product receives the first marketing approval in the European Union for the orphan indication for which it has been designated and maintains under applicable criteria its designation as an orphan medicinal product at the time of approval, the product is entitled to a period of market exclusivity in the European Union.  Subject to certain exceptions, this market exclusivity precludes the EMA from accepting another marketing application for a \"similar medicinal product\" for the same indication for 10 years, which can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation (including if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified).  Under E.U. law, a \"similar medicinal product\" is a medicinal product that contains a similar active substance or substances as contained in the authorized orphan medicinal product and that is intended for the same therapeutic indication and a \"similar active substance\" is an active substance that is identical or has the same principal molecular structural features (but not necessarily all of the same molecular features) and acts via the same mechanism as the authorized orphan medicinal product.. SHP625 has been evaluated to date in a greater number of PFIC patients than has A4250.  If (1) prior to marketing approval, if any, of A4250 to treat PFIC in the European Union, SHP625 is approved in the European Union to treat PFIC and at the time of approval maintains its designation as an orphan medicinal product, (2) A4250 is deemed to be a similar medicinal product to SHP625 and (3) we are not able to establish that A4250 provides a significant benefit to patients compared with SHP625, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval of A4250 in the European Union for at least several years.. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity in the United States or the European Union for A4250 for PFIC or any other indication, notwithstanding the fact that A4250 has been designated as an orphan drug in the United States or an orphan medicinal product in the European Union. For example, if a competitive product that is the same drug as A4250 is shown to be clinically superior, any orphan drug exclusivity that we have obtained in the United States will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity will not prevent the approval in the United States of a product that is the same drug as our product candidate if the FDA finds that we cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs of the persons with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated.  Moreover, if prior to marketing approval, if any, of A4250 to treat PFIC in the European Union, SHP625 or any other product is approved in the European Union to treat PFIC, A4250 may not be entitled to orphan drug exclusivity if we are not able to establish that it provides a significant benefit to patients compared with SHP625.  Finally, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drug products can be approved for the same condition.. 59. Even if we complete the necessary clinical trials, the marketing approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. If we are not able to obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, required marketing approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired.. Our product candidates, including A4250, elobixibat and A3384, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their design, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate.  Other than the approval of elobixibat received by EA Pharma for the treatment of chronic constipation in Japan, we have not received approval to market A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any other product candidate from regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction.. We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to obtain marketing approvals for product candidates and expect to rely on third-party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and effectiveness. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may determine that A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours is not effective, is only moderately effective or has undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, safety profiles or other characteristics that preclude us from obtaining marketing approval or that prevent or limit commercial use.. The process of obtaining marketing approvals is expensive, may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical studies, clinical trials or other trials. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. If we experience delays in obtaining approval or if we fail to obtain approval of our product candidates, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues will be materially impaired.. Our failure to obtain marketing approval in jurisdictions other than the United States and Europe would prevent our product candidates from being marketed in these other jurisdictions. Any approval that we are granted for our product candidates in the United States or Europe would not assure approval of product candidates in the other or in any other jurisdiction.. In order to market and sell A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidate of ours in jurisdictions other than the United States or Europe, we or a current or potential future licensee or collaborator must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States and Europe generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMA approval. In addition, some countries outside the United States and Europe require approval of the sales price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, separate procedures must be followed to obtain reimbursement. We or a current or potential future licensee or collaborator may not obtain marketing, pricing or reimbursement approvals outside the United States and Europe on a timely basis, if at all.. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the EMA, approval by the EMA does not assure approval by the FDA, and approval of either or both of the FDA and EMA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions. Likewise, approval by any regulatory authority in any country or jurisdiction outside the United States or Europe, such as Japan, does not assure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA or EMA. We and any current or potential future licensee or collaborator may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our product candidates in any market. Marketing approvals in countries outside the United States and Europe do not ensure pricing approvals in those countries or in any other countries, and marketing approvals and pricing approvals do not ensure that reimbursement will be obtained.. 60. Our ability to obtain and maintain conditional marketing authorizations in the European Union is limited to specific circumstances and subject to several conditions and obligations. A failure to renew any conditional approval that we obtain prior to full approval for the applicable indication would prevent us from continuing to market our products.. Conditional marketing authorizations in the European Union based on incomplete clinical data may be granted for a limited number of listed medicinal products for human use, including products designated as orphan medicinal products under E.U. law, if (1) the risk-benefit balance of the product is positive, (2) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. Specific obligations, including with respect to the completion of ongoing or new studies or trials, and with respect to the collection of pharmacovigilance data, may be specified in the conditional marketing authorization. Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year and may be renewed annually, if the risk-benefit balance remains positive, and after an assessment of the need for additional or modified conditions. Even if we obtain conditional approval for A4250 for the treatment of PFIC or any other pediatric cholestatic liver disease or disorder, we may not be able to renew such conditional approval.. Even if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates, the terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture or market our products and compliance with such requirements may involve substantial resources, which could materially impair our ability to generate profit.. Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, an approved product and its manufacturer and marketer are subject to ongoing review and extensive regulation, including the possible requirement to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or to conduct costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. We must also comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved labeling. Thus, we will not be able to promote any products we develop for indications or uses for which they are not approved. In addition, manufacturers of approved products and those manufacturers' facilities are required to ensure that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and reporting requirements. We and our contract manufacturers could be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to monitor and ensure compliance with cGMP.. Accordingly, to the extent we receive marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, we and our contract manufacturers will continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, product surveillance and quality control. If we are not able to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, we could have marketing approval for any of our products withdrawn by regulatory authorities and our ability to market any future products could be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. Thus, the cost of compliance with post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to strict enforcement of post-marketing requirements and we could be subject to substantial penalties, including withdrawal of our products from the market, if we fail to comply with all regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These requirements include, but are not limited to, restrictions governing promotion of an approved product, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, cGMP requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, and requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping.. 61. The FDA closely regulates compliance with all requirements governing prescription drug products, including requirements pertaining to marketing and promotion of drugs in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling and manufacturing of products in accordance with cGMP requirements. Violations of such requirements may lead to investigations alleging violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other statutes, including the False Claims Act and other federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws as well as state consumer protection laws. Our failure to comply with all regulatory requirements, and later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, may yield various results, including:. •  litigation involving patients taking our products;. •  restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. •  restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;. •  restrictions on product distribution or use;. •  requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;. •  warning or untitled letters;. •  withdrawal of the products from the market;. •  refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. •  recall of products;. •  fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;. •  suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;. •  damage to relationships with any potential collaborators;. •  unfavorable press coverage and damage to our reputation;. •  refusal to permit the import or export of our products;. •  product seizure; or. •  injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. Our noncompliance, or noncompliance by any future licensee or collaborator, with regulatory requirements relating to safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, to the development of products for the pediatric population or to the protection of personal information can lead to significant penalties and sanctions.. Fast track designation by the FDA may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. The designation offers the sponsor opportunities for interactions with the FDA review team and the possibility of a rolling review for certain portions of the marketing application. We believe that A4250 may meet the criteria to be designated as a fast track product. However, even if we seek and are granted a fast track designation for A4250, there is no assurance that A4250 will receive marketing approval from the FDA or that approval will be granted within any particular timeframe. We may also seek fast track designation for other current or potential future product candidates of ours. Even if the FDA grants fast track designation to one or more of these product candidates, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw fast track designation that may in the future be granted to any of our product candidates if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program for that product candidate. Fast track designation alone does not guarantee qualification for the FDA's priority review procedures.. Priority review designation by the FDA may not lead to a faster regulatory review or approval process and, in any event, does not assure FDA approval.. If the FDA determines that a product candidate intended to treat a serious disease, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness of the treatment of the disease, the FDA may designate the drug application for that product candidate for priority review. A priority review designation means that the goal for the FDA to review the marketing application is six months from the date of NDA acceptance for filing, rather than the standard review period of ten months from the date of NDA acceptance for filing. We may request priority review for A4250 or other current or potential future product candidates of ours at the. 62. time that the marketing application is submitted. The FDA has broad discretion with respect to whether or not to grant priority review status to an individual marketing application. As a result, even if we believe a particular product candidate is eligible for such designation or status, the FDA may decide not to grant it. Moreover, a priority review designation does not necessarily mean a faster regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. Receiving a priority review designation from the FDA does not guarantee approval of the drug application within the six-month review cycle or any time thereafter.. Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers and professionals and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidate, including A4250, elobixibat or A3384, for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with customers, healthcare providers and professionals, and third-party payors may expose us to broadly applicable federal and state fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell or distribute any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and pharmacy benefit managers, among others. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback laws and regulations.. The federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, and provides for civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Both the government and qui tam relators have brought False Claims Act actions against pharmaceutical companies on the theory that their practices have caused false claims to be submitted to the government.. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, and its implementing regulations, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.. The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, referred to together as the Affordable Care Act, require manufacturers of FDA-approved drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies covered by Medicare or Medicaid to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, and physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Among other payments, the law requires payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals for clinical trials be disclosed.. Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by nongovernmental third-party payors, including private insurers. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines, or the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures to the extent that those laws impose requirements that are more stringent than the Physician Payments Sunshine Act. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare. 63. programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Violation of certain of these laws could also result in exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs. Exclusion, suspension or debarment would significantly impact our ability to commercialize, sell or distribute any product candidate for which we obtain regulatory approval. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.. Legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain for any product that receives marketing approval.. In the United States and in some other jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of A4250, elobixibat, A3384 or any potential future product candidates of ours, restrict or regulate post-approval activities, or affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates, including A4250, elobixibat or A3384, for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the Medicare Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for physician administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the Medicare Modernization Act applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.. In March 2010, the Affordable Care Act, or ACA, became law in the United States. The ACA is a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Both Congress and President Trump have expressed an intention to repeal or repeal and replace the ACA, and as a result certain sections of the ACA have not been fully implemented or effectively repealed. The uncertainty around the future of the ACA, and in particular the impact to reimbursement levels, may lead to uncertainty or delay in the purchasing decisions of our customers, which may in turn negatively impact our product sales. If there are not adequate reimbursement levels, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, there are a number of state and local legislative and regulatory efforts related to drug pricing, including a drug price transparency law in Vermont that applies to pharmaceutical manufacturers, that may have an impact on our business.. In addition, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act imposes new obligations on manufacturers of pharmaceutical products related to product tracking and tracing. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We are unsure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the current regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or whether such changes will have any impact on our business.. In the European Union, similar political, economic and regulatory developments may affect our ability to profitably commercialize our products. In addition to continuing pressure on prices and cost containment measures, legislative developments at the European Union or E.U. member state level may result in significant additional requirements or obstacles that may increase our operating costs.. We expect that the ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures, and may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our drugs.. 64. We are subject to anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business and may do business in the future. The FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us, our officers, and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We may in the future operate in jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA violations and we may participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the government of the United States and authorities in the European Union, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws.. There is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA or other legal requirements, including Trade Control laws. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by U.S. or other authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology or loss of data, including any cyber security incidents, could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information or expose us to liability which could harm our ability to operate our business effectively and adversely affect our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we, our contract research organizations and other third parties on which we rely collect and store sensitive data, including legally protected patient health information, personally identifiable information about our employees, intellectual property, and proprietary business information. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing on-site systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business-critical information including research and development information and business and financial information.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy.  Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of third parties with which we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, breaches unauthorized access, interruptions due to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions, or damage from natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any such event could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. We have measures in place that are designed to detect and respond to such security incidents and breaches of privacy and security mandates. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to conduct research, development and commercialization activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy, any of which could adversely affect our business.  The loss of clinical trial data could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will promptly detect any such disruption or security breach, if at all. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and our product research, development and commercialization efforts could be delayed.. 65. Risks Related to Our Business Operations, Employee Matters and Managing Growth. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are not able to remediate the material weaknesses and otherwise to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.. Under standards established by the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis.. In connection with the audit of our 2016 financial statements, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, specifically a lack of controls over the identification and review of complex accounting issues involving significant judgment or estimates in the financial statement closing process resulting from our limited in-house accounting and finance team. We have in the past relied on consultants and external advisors to provide assistance with financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and these consultants and external advisors may not have had direct knowledge of all of our business, transactions and contracts. Specifically, we determined that we did not have sufficient resources with U.S. GAAP and SEC financial reporting knowledge to ensure a timely and sufficient financial statement close process that included resolution of complex accounting issues involving significant judgment and estimates.. Additionally, our financial accounting information system had limited functionality and certain closing and consolidating activities were managed and processed outside of the system. These system limitations, as well as a lack of sufficient accounting staff, negatively affected the design and operation of our financial statement close process. Deficiencies in our financial statement close process limited our ability to adequately monitor certain adjustments and perform appropriate account analyses and reconciliations. These deficiencies constituted material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and have resulted in financial statement errors not being identified on a timely basis.. We are working to remediate these material weaknesses. In particular, we hired a full-time chief financial officer in July 2016, a controller and accounting manager in March 2017 and a staff accountant in Sweden in September 2017.  Also, we have implemented a new accounting information system and redesigned our close process. We estimate that we will remediate the material weaknesses during 2018, but we may not ever be able to remediate the material weaknesses. If we are unable to successfully remediate the material weaknesses and otherwise to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence in us and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, is designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Pursuant to Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we have dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, we and our independent registered public accounting firm were not able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2017 as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements.. 66. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on Ron Cooper, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other principal members of our management and scientific teams. Although we have formal employment agreements with each of our executive officers, these agreements do not prevent our executives from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance on any of our executive officers. The unplanned loss of the services of any of these persons could materially impact the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, including in the United States and Sweden, will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We expect to expand our capabilities and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs, finance and administration and, potentially, sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. We incur significant costs and demands as a result of operating as a public company.. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses to meet our obligations as a publicly traded company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways that are not currently anticipated. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and could cause our business or stock price to suffer.. We are exposed to risks related to currency exchange rates.. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside of the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates have had and could have in the future a significant effect on our operating results when our operating results are translated into U.S. dollars. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the dollar create risk in several ways, including the following: weakening of the dollar may increase the cost of overseas research and development expenses and the cost of sourced product components outside the United States; strengthening of the dollar may decrease the value of our revenues denominated in other currencies; the exchange rates on nondollar transactions and cash deposits can distort our financial results; and commercial pricing and profit margins may be affected.. 67. Our employees, principal investigators, consultants and commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other misconduct by our employees, principal investigators, consultants and collaborators, including intentional failures to comply with FDA or Office of Inspector General regulations or similar regulations of comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. Misconduct by these parties could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws, standards or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is expected to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of clinical-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. •  the progress, scope, cost, duration or results of our current and any future clinical trials of our product candidates;. •  the timing and success of submission, acceptance and approval of regulatory filings;. •  our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, delays or failures to obtain such approvals and any restrictions, limitations or warnings in the label of any approved product candidates;. •  failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success;. •  issues in manufacturing our approved products, if any, or product candidates;. •  the entry into, or termination of, licensing, collaboration or similar agreements, or other key agreements, and the agreement terms;. •  the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights or defend against the intellectual property rights of others;. •  announcements by commercial partners or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. •  adverse publicity relating to the markets in which we compete, including with respect to other products and potential products in such markets;. •  the introduction of technological innovations or new therapies that compete with our product candidates or products, if any;. •  the loss of key employees;. •  changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock;. •  low trading volume;. •  general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures;. •  changes in the structure of health care payment systems;. •  failure to maintain compliance with listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market; and. •  period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.. 68. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. Our stock price may be especially volatile because of, and investor interest in our common stock may be negatively affected by, unauthorized trading of our common stock on stock exchanges in Germany.. We are aware that our common stock may be trading on multiple stock exchanges in Germany, which we have not authorized.  These German exchanges have been rumored to allow short selling of stock without assurance that shares sufficient to cover the trade are available, also known as \"naked\" short selling, or otherwise not comply with exchange requirements that are customary in the United States.  The trading of our common stock on these German stock exchanges may make the market price of our common stock more volatile than it would otherwise be.  This increased volatility, or the potential for this increased volatility, could have a negative impact on investor interest in our common stock, which could depress the market price of our common stock.. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval.. As of March 1, 2018, our executive officers and directors, and their affiliates, beneficially own or control approximately 13.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock (after giving effect to the exercise of all outstanding vested and unvested options to purchase shares of our common stock held by our executive officers and directors). Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may cause the price of our common stock to decline if investors perceive that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We currently expect to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain, if any, for the foreseeable future.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. If any of our executive officers or directors, or their affiliates, sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the lock-up restrictions applicable to them from our public offering in January 2018 lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of March 1, 2018, we had outstanding a total of approximately 11.9 million shares of common stock. Of these shares, approximately 11.0 million shares of common stock are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market as of March 1, 2018.. Because the share exchange completed pursuant to the Exchange Agreement resulted in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code, the pre-exchange net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes of Biodel will be subject to limitations. Our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes may also be subject to additional limitations as a result of ownership changes.. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code, or Section 382, the corporation's net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes arising from before the ownership change are subject to limitations on use after the ownership change. In general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in the corporation's equity ownership by certain stockholders that exceeds fifty percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. The share exchange resulted in an ownership change for Biodel and, accordingly, the ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes of Biodel will be limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards may also be subject to limitation as a result of shifts in equity ownership or the completed share exchange. Additional ownership changes, such as our public offerings of common stock in May 2017 and January 2018 and sales of common stock under our at-the-market program sales agreement with Cowen, or other transactions in the future could result in additional limitations on our net operating loss carryforwards. Consequently, even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of these net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.. 69. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all costs and damages.. In the past, securities class action or shareholder derivative litigation often follows certain significant business transactions, such as the sale of a business division or announcement of a merger. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team.. Among others, these provisions:. •  establish a classified board of directors such that not all members of the board are elected at one time;. •  allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. •  limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board of directors;. •  establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors;. •  require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent;. •  limit who may call stockholder meetings;. •  authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a stockholder rights plan or \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and. •  require the approval of the holders of at least 75% of the votes that all of our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal certain provisions of our charter or bylaws.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner."
