[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a number of significant risks. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, before you decide whether to make an investment in our securities. The risks set out below present the principal risk factors associated with an investment in our securities as well as those factors generally associated with investment in a company with investment objectives, investment policies, capital structure or trading markets similar to ours including the risks of investment in a business development company, which includes risks associated with investing in a portfolio of small and developing or financially troubled businesses. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to our Business and Structure. We are dependent upon key personnel of our Adviser and the Alcentra Group for our future success. If our Adviser or the Alcentra Group were to lose any of its key personnel, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the investment professionals of our Adviser and the Alcentra Group to achieve our investment objective. Our Adviser's team of investment professionals evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments in accordance with the terms of our Investment Advisory Agreement.. The Adviser's Investment Committee, which provides oversight over our investment activities, is provided to us by our Adviser under the Investment Advisory Agreement. The Investment Committee consists of David Scopelliti, Paul Hatfield, Vijay Rajguru, Ellida McMillan, Branko Krmpotic and Kevin Cronk. The loss of any member of our Investment Committee would limit our ability to achieve our Adviser's investment objective and operate as we anticipate. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser's network of relationships with financial sponsors, service providers and other intermediaries. Any inability of our Adviser to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We depend upon our Adviser to maintain its relationships with private equity sponsors, placement agents, investment banks, management groups and other financial institutions, and we expect to rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our Adviser fails to maintain such relationships, or to develop new relationships with other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom our Adviser has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and we can offer no assurance that these relationships will continue to generate investment opportunities for us in the future.. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend on our ability to manage our business effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to manage our business and to grow our investments and earnings. This depends, in turn, on our Adviser's ability to identify, invest in and monitor portfolio companies that meet our investment guidelines. The achievement of our investment objective on a cost-effective basis depends upon our Adviser's execution of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and, to a lesser extent, our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our Adviser's investment professionals have substantial responsibilities in connection with the management of other investment funds, accounts and investment vehicles. The personnel of our Adviser may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies.. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. These activities may distract them from servicing new investment opportunities for us or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business and our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could negatively affect our operations and investment returns.. Certain of our executive officers and directors, and members of the Investment Committee of our Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of other entities and affiliates of our Adviser and investment funds managed by our Adviser or its affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in our or our stockholders' best interests or may require them to devote time to services for other entities, which could interfere with the time available to provide services to us. Members of our Adviser's Investment Committee may have significant responsibilities for other funds. Similarly, although the professional staff of our Adviser will devote as much time to the management of the Company as appropriate to enable our Adviser to perform its duties in accordance with the investment advisory and management agreement, the investment professionals of our Adviser may have conflicts in allocating their time and services among the Company, on the one hand, and investment vehicles managed by our Adviser or one or more of its affiliates, on the other hand. These activities could be viewed as creating a conflict of interest insofar as the time and effort of the professional staff of our Adviser and its officers and employees will not be devoted exclusively to the business of the Company but will instead be allocated between the business of the Company and the management of these other investment vehicles.. In addition, certain funds may have investment objectives that compete or overlap with, and may from time to time invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by, us. Consequently, we, on the one hand, and these other entities, on the other hand, may from time to time pursue the same or similar capital and investment opportunities. Our Adviser endeavors to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, and in any event consistent with any fiduciary duties owed to us. Nevertheless, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by investment funds managed by investment managers affiliated with our Adviser. In addition, there may be conflicts in the allocation of investments among us and the funds managed by investment managers affiliated with our Adviser or one or more of our controlled affiliates or among the funds they manage, including investments made pursuant to the co-investment exemptive order. Further, such other Alcentra NY-managed funds may hold positions in portfolio companies in which we have also invested. Such investments may raise potential conflicts of interest between us and such other Alcentra NY-managed funds, particularly if we and such other Alcentra NY-managed funds invest in different classes or types of securities or investments of the same underlying portfolio company. In that regard, actions may be taken by such other Alcentra NY-managed funds that are adverse to our interests, including, but not limited to, during a restructuring, bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding or similar matter occurring at the underlying portfolio company.. We pay our investment advisor an annual base management fee based on our gross assets as well as an incentive fee based on our investment advisor's performance. Our Adviser's base management fee is based on a percentage of our gross assets (other than cash or cash equivalents but including assets purchased with borrowed funds) and, consequently, our Adviser may have conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could affect our total assets, such as decisions as to whether to incur indebtedness or to make future investments.. Our investment advisory and management agreement renews for successive annual periods if approved by our board of directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities, including, in either case, approval by a majority of our directors who are not \"interested persons\" of the Company as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act. However, both we and our Adviser have the right to terminate the agreement without penalty upon 60 days' written notice to the other party. Moreover, conflicts of interest may arise if our investment adviser seeks to change the terms of our investment advisory and management agreement, including, for example, the terms for compensation to our investment advisor. While any material change to the investment advisory and management agreement must be submitted to stockholders for approval under the 1940 Act, we may from time to time decide it is appropriate to seek stockholder approval to change the terms of the agreement.. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. As a result of the arrangements described above, there may be times when the management team of Alcentra NY (including those members of management focused primarily on managing the Company) has interests that differ from those of yours, giving rise to a conflict.. Our stockholders may have conflicting investment, tax and other objectives with respect to their investments in us. The conflicting interests of individual stockholders may relate to or arise from, among other things, the nature of our investments, the structure or the acquisition of our investments, and the timing of dispositions of our investments. As a consequence, conflicts of interest may arise in connection with decisions made by our investment advisor, including with respect to the nature or structuring of our investments, that may be more beneficial for one stockholder than for another stockholder, especially with respect to stockholders' individual tax situations. In selecting and structuring investments appropriate for us, our Adviser will consider the investment and tax objectives of the Company and our stockholders, as a whole, not the investment, tax or other objectives of any stockholder individually.. The investment professionals of our Adviser may, from time to time, possess material nonpublic information, limiting our investment discretion.. The investment professionals of our Adviser, including members of its Investment Committee, may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, portfolio companies in which we invest, the securities of which are purchased or sold on our behalf. In the event that material nonpublic information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we become subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us.. The capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. For example, between 2008 and 2009, the global capital markets were unstable as evidenced by periodic disruptions in liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. Despite actions of the U.S. federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While market conditions have largely recovered from the events of 2008 and 2009, there have been continuing periods of volatility, some lasting longer than others. For example, the referendum by British voters to exit the European Union in June 2016 led to further disruption and instability in the global markets. There can be no assurance these market conditions will not repeat themselves or worsen in the future.. Equity capital may be difficult to raise during periods of adverse or volatile market conditions because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. We have previously attempted to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value, however, our stockholders did not approve such issuance.. Volatility and dislocation in the capital markets can also create a challenging environment in which to raise or access debt capital. The reappearance of market conditions similar to those experienced from 2008 through 2009 for any substantial length of time could make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness or obtain new indebtedness with similar terms and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions than what we currently experience including being at a higher cost due to a rising rate environment. If we are unable to raise or refinance debt, then our equity investors may not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or to fund existing commitments to our portfolio companies.. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Significant changes or volatility in the capital markets may also have a negative effect on the valuations of our investments. While most of our investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). Significant changes in the capital markets may also affect the pace of our investment activity and the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. Thus, the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments to access capital if required, and as a result, we could realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments if we were required to sell them for liquidity purposes. An inability to raise or access capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States, China and several countries in Europe could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (\"S&P\") downgraded the federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. Further, Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (\"Moody's\") and Fitch Ratings Inc. (\"Fitch\") had warned that they may downgrade the federal government's credit rating under certain circumstances. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the United States government's credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased U.S. government credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock.. Deterioration in the economic conditions in the Eurozone and globally, including instability in financial markets, may pose a risk to our business. In recent years, financial markets have been affected at times by a number of global macroeconomic and political events, including the following: large sovereign debts and fiscal deficits of several countries in Europe and in emerging markets jurisdictions, levels of non-performing loans on the balance sheets of European banks, the potential effect of any European country leaving the Eurozone, the potential effect of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union, the potential effect of Scotland leaving the United Kingdom, and market volatility and loss of investor confidence driven by political events, including the general elections in the United Kingdom in June 2017 and in Germany in September 2017 and referenda in the United Kingdom in June 2016 and Italy in December 2016. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available, or if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. In the second quarter of 2015, stock prices in China experienced a significant drop, resulting primarily from continued sell-off of shares trading in Chinese markets. In addition, in August 2015, Chinese authorities sharply devalued China's currency. Since then, the Chinese capital markets have continued to experience periods of instability. These market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds Rate in December 2015, in December 2016, in March 2017, in June 2017 and again in December 2017, and has announced its intention to continue to raise the federal funds rate over time. These developments, along with the United States government's credit and deficit concerns, the European sovereign debt crisis and the economic slowdown in China, could cause interest rates to be volatile, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We cannot predict how tax reform legislation will affect us, our investments, or our stockholders, and any such legislation could adversely affect our business.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. The U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate passed tax reform legislation, which the President recently signed into law. Such legislation will make many changes to the Code, including significant changes to the taxation of business entities, the deductibility of interest expense, and the tax treatment of capital investment. We cannot predict with certainty how any changes in the tax laws might affect us, our stockholders, or our portfolio investments. New legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect our ability to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our stockholders of such qualification, or could have other adverse consequences. Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor regarding tax legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our securities.. Changes in interest rates may increase our cost of capital, reduce the ability of our portfolio companies to service their debt obligations and decrease our net investment income.. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on our rate of return on invested capital, our net investment income, our net asset value and the market price of our securities. A substantial portion of our debt investments have variable interest rates that reset periodically based on benchmarks such as LIBOR and the prime rate, so an increase in interest rates from their historically low present levels may make it more difficult for our portfolio companies to service their obligations under the debt investments that we hold. To the extent that interest rates further increase, this may negatively impact the operating performance of our portfolio companies due to increasing debt service obligations and, therefore, may affect our results of operations. In addition, to the extent that further increases in interest rates make it difficult or impossible to make payments on outstanding indebtedness to us or other financial sponsors or refinance debt that is maturing in the near term, some of our portfolio companies may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and may be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection. In addition, any such further increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments.. Because we may borrow to fund our investments, a portion of our net investment income may be dependent upon the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we invest these funds. Portions of our investment portfolio and our borrowings have floating rate components. As a result, a significant change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We may hedge against such interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as interest rate swap agreements, futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements, including without limitation, all necessary registrations (or exemptions from registration) with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or CFTC. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged borrowings. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity funds and Subordinated debt funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial and investment banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, also invest in lower-middle and middle-market companies. As a result, competition is intense for investment opportunities in lower-middle and middle-market companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss, especially in periods of rising interest rates during which our cost funds may increase, resulting in compression on the yields of our portfolio investments. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC.. Our incentive fee may induce our Adviser to make speculative investments.. Our Adviser receives an incentive fee based, in part, upon net realized gains on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate or preferred return applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net realized gains. Additionally, under the incentive fee structure, our Adviser may benefit when capital gains are recognized and, because our Adviser determines when to sell a holding, our Adviser controls the timing of the recognition of such capital gains. As a result, our Adviser may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns.. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss and may pay more than 20.0% of our net capital gains because we cannot recover payments made in previous years.. Our Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a threshold return for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. If we pay an incentive fee of 20.0% of our realized capital gains (net of all realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis) and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive fee previously paid.. The time and resources that our Adviser devotes to us may be diverted, and we may face additional competition due to the fact that our Adviser and its affiliates are not prohibited from raising money for, or managing, another entity that makes the same types of investments that we target.. Our Adviser and some of its affiliates, including our officers and our interested directors, are not prohibited from raising money for, or managing, another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. As a result, the time and resources they could devote to us may be diverted. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities.. Our incentive fee arrangements with our Adviser may vary from those of other investment funds, accounts or investment vehicles that our Adviser currently manages or may manage in the future, which may create an incentive for our Adviser to devote time and resources to a higher fee-paying fund.. Our Adviser manages private investment funds, accounts and other investment vehicles and may manage other funds, accounts and investment vehicles in the future. If our Adviser is paid a higher performance-based fee from any other fund that it may manage in the future, it may have an incentive to devote more research and development or other activities, and/or recommend the allocation of investment opportunities, to such higher fee-paying fund. For example, to the extent our Adviser's incentive compensation is not subject to a hurdle or total return requirement with respect to another fund, it may have an incentive to devote time and resources to such other fund. As a result, the investment professionals of our Adviser may devote time and resources to a higher fee-paying fund.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our Adviser's liability is limited under the Investment Advisory Agreement and we have agreed to indemnify our Adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our Adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services called for under that agreement. It will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow our Adviser's advice or recommendations. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser, its officers, members and personnel, and any person controlling or controlled by our Adviser will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of the duties that our Adviser owes to us under the Investment Advisory Agreement. In addition, as part of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify our Adviser and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the Investment Advisory Agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the Investment Advisory Agreement. These protections may lead our Adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which could reduce returns and result in losses.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with public and private funds, other BDCs, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent that they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity and hedge funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, we believe some of our competitors may have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements we must satisfy to maintain our RIC qualification. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. With respect to the investments we make, we do not seek to compete based primarily on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be lower than the rates we offer. With respect to all investments, we may lose some investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income, lower yields and increased risk of credit loss.. Our activities may be limited as a result of being controlled by a bank holding company.. BNY Mellon is a bank holding company, or a \"BHC\" under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the \"BHCA.\" BNY Mellon is also a financial holding company, or \"FHC,\" under the BHCA, which is a status available to BHCs that meet certain criteria.. FHCs may engage in a broader range of activities than BHCs that are not FHCs. However, the activities of FHCs and their affiliates remain subject to certain restrictions imposed by the BHCA and related regulations. Because BNY Mellon may be deemed to \"control\" us within the meaning of the BHCA, these restrictions could apply to us as well. Accordingly, the BHCA and other applicable banking laws, rules, regulations and guidelines, and their interpretation and administration by the appropriate regulatory agencies, including but not limited to the Federal Reserve, may restrict the transactions and relationships. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. between our Adviser, BNY Mellon and their affiliates, on the one hand, and us on the other hand, and may restrict our investments, transactions and operations. For example, the BHCA regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and us may, among other things, restrict our ability to make certain investments or the size of certain investments, impose a maximum holding period on some or all of our investments, and restrict our Adviser's ability to participate in the management and operations of the companies in which we invest. In addition, certain BHCA regulations may require aggregation of the positions owned, held or controlled by related entities. Thus, in certain circumstances, positions held by BNY Mellon and its affiliates (including our Adviser) for client and proprietary accounts may need to be aggregated with positions held by us. In this case, where BHCA regulations impose a cap on the amount of a position that may be held, BNY Mellon may utilize available capacity to make investments for its proprietary accounts or for the accounts of other clients, which may require us to limit and/or liquidate certain investments.. These restrictions may materially adversely affect us by, among other things, affecting our Adviser's ability to pursue certain strategies within our investment program or trade in certain securities. In addition, BNY Mellon may cease in the future to qualify as an FHC, which may subject us to additional restrictions. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the bank regulatory requirements applicable to BNY Mellon and us will not change, or that any such change will not have a material adverse effect on us.. BNY Mellon may in the future, in its sole discretion and without notice to investors, engage in activities impacting us and/or our Adviser in order to comply with the BHCA or other legal requirements applicable to, or reduce or eliminate the impact or applicability of any bank regulatory or other restrictions on, BNY Mellon, us or other funds and accounts managed by our Adviser and its affiliates. BNY Mellon may seek to accomplish this result by causing Alcentra NY, LLC to resign as our Adviser, voting for changes to our board of directors, causing BNY Mellon personnel to resign from our board of directors, reducing the amount of BNY Mellon's investment in us (if any), or any combination of the foregoing, or by such other means as it determines in its sole discretion. Any replacement investment adviser appointed by us may be unaffiliated with BNY Mellon.. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to qualify or maintain our tax treatment as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code.. To maintain our tax treatment as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements. The distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we incur debt, we will be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain the necessary distributions, we may fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of our qualification as a RIC. Because most of our investments will be in private or thinly-traded public companies, any such dispositions may be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses.. We may need to raise additional capital to either sustain our current activities or grow because we must distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders.. We will need additional capital to either sustain our current activities and/or fund new investments. We intend to access the capital markets periodically to issue debt or equity securities or borrow from financial institutions in order to obtain such capital. Unfavorable economic or capital market conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. A reduction in the availability of capital could limit our ability to operate or grow. In addition, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders to maintain our qualification as a RIC. As a result, these earnings will not be available to fund new or follow-on investments. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. to protect our principal in existing portfolio companies . An inability on our part to access the capital markets successfully could limit our ability to operate or grow our business and execute our business strategy fully and could decrease our earnings, if any, which would have an adverse effect on the value of our securities.. In addition, if our common stock trades below net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional common stock at the market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. We do not currently have stockholder approval to sell shares below net asset value and may not be able to obtain such approval in the future. Our common stock has consistently traded below net asset value since our IPO on May 8, 2014 except for brief periods of time. As of December 31, 2017, our net asset value per share was $11.09. The last reported sale price of a share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on March 13, 2018 was $7.70. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as the accrual of original issue discount, or OID. This may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan and in other circumstances, or through contractual PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such OID, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, and increases in loan balances as a result of contracted PIK arrangements will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash.. Since in certain cases we may recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gains in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, to maintain our qualification as a RIC. In such a case, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain such cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax.. PIK interest payments we receive increases our assets under management and, as a result, increases the amount of base management fees and incentive fees payable by us to our Adviser.. Certain of our debt investments contain provisions providing for the payment of PIK interest. Because PIK interest results in an increase in the size of the loan balance of the underlying loan, the receipt by us of PIK interest has the effect of increasing our assets under management. As a result, because the base management fee that we pay to our Adviser is based on the value of our gross assets, the receipt by us of PIK interest results in an increase in the amount of the base management fee payable by us.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage.. We have incurred indebtedness under our senior secured revolving credit agreement (\"Credit Facility\") with ING Capital LLC, as administrative agent and lender, and through the issuance of the debt securities, which we refer to as the InterNotes. We may in the future issue additional debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow additional money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted as a BDC to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of our gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss.. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. Our stockholders have authorized us to issue warrants, options or rights to subscribe for, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock at a price per share below the net asset value per share, subject to the applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. There is no expiration date on our ability to issue such warrants, options, rights or convertible securities based on this stockholder approval. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.. We are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect.. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our management team to other types of investments in which our management team may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.. We finance our investments with borrowed money, which will magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. The use of leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. However, we borrow from, and issue debt securities to, banks, insurance companies and other parties. Lenders of these funds have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our securities holders, and we expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. We have pledged substantially all of our assets under the Credit Facility.. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged, thereby magnifying losses or eliminating our stake in a leveraged investment. Similarly, any decrease in our revenue or income will cause our net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed.. Our ability to service any debt will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the base management fee payable to our Adviser is payable based on the value of our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, our Adviser may have a financial incentive to incur leverage, which may not be consistent with our stockholders' interests. In addition, our common stockholders bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of our use of leverage, including interest expenses and any increase in the base management fee payable to our Adviser.. Our Credit Facility and any future indebtedness may impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our qualification as a RIC under the Code.. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we will not be able to incur additional debt and. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. could be required to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is otherwise disadvantageous for us to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our Adviser's and our board of directors' assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us.. We may not be able to pay distributions to our stockholders, our distributions may not grow over time, a portion of distributions paid to our stockholders may be a return of capital and investors in our debt securities may not receive all of the interest income to which they are entitled.. We intend to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be harmed by, among other things, the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could, in the future, limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC tax treatment, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, compliance with the covenants of our debt securities and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, our Credit Facility may restrict the amount of distributions we are permitted to make. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future.. The above-referenced restrictions on distributions may also inhibit our ability to make required interest payments to holders of our debt securities, which may cause a default under the terms of our debt agreements. Such a default could materially increase our cost of raising capital, as well as cause us to incur penalties under the terms of our debt agreements.. When we make quarterly distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits, recognized capital gain or capital. To the extent there is a return of capital, investors will be required to reduce their basis in our stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may result in a higher tax liability when the shares are sold, even if they have not increased in value or have lost value.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with contractual PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. Investments structured with these features may represent a higher level of credit risk compared to investments generating income which must be paid in cash on a current basis. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist stockholders.. Activist stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or board nominations or otherwise attempt to effect changes, assert influence or acquire some level of control over the Company. In late 2017 and early 2018, Stilwell Value LLC and affiliated entities filed with the SEC Schedules 13D in which they disclosed that such persons had accumulated a total of 1,213,712 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 8.5% of our total outstanding shares of common stock at such time. In the Schedule 13D, Stilwell Value LLC stated, among other things, that they intend to profit from the appreciation in the market price of our common stock through asserting shareholder rights.. While our board of directors and management team strive to maintain constructive, ongoing communications with all of our stockholders, and welcome their views and opinions with the goal of enhancing value for all stockholders, the views of activist stockholders may not be fully aligned with the views of our board of directors, management team, or other stockholders and their actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business for the following reasons:. . Pursuit of an activist stockholder's agenda may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our business strategy and create additional value for our stockholders.. . Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and employees away from their regular duties and the pursuit of our business strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. . Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of actions by activist stockholders may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business, instability or lack of continuity. This may result in the loss of current and/or potential business opportunities and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. . Actions by activist stockholders could cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. . Pursuit of an activist stockholder's agenda may jeopardize our ability to meet the diversification requirements necessary to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; failure to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC would render our taxable income subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes.. . Pursuit of an activist stockholder's agenda may cause our non-compliance with leverage covenants under the Credit Facility or the terms of the indenture under which the InterNotes are issued, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given as to the outcome or timing of any matters relating to actions by activist stockholders or the ultimate impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. We may default under the Credit Facility or any future borrowing facility we enter into or be unable to amend, repay or refinance any such facility on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In the event we default under the Credit Facility or any other future borrowing facility, our business could be adversely affected as we may be forced to sell a portion of our investments quickly and prematurely at what may be disadvantageous prices to us in order to meet our outstanding payment. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS. obligations and/or support working capital requirements under the Credit Facility or such future borrowing facility, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, following any such default, the agent for the lenders under the Credit Facility or such future borrowing facility could assume control of the disposition of any or all of our assets, including the selection of such assets to be disposed and the timing of such disposition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Because we use debt to finance our investments, if market interest rates were to increase, our cost of capital could increase, which could reduce our net investment income.. Because we borrow money to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates would not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. There is no limit on our ability to enter derivative transactions.. In addition, a rise in the general level of interest rates typically leads to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates may result in an increase of the amount of our pre-incentive fee net investment income and, as a result, an increase in incentive fees payable to our Adviser.. Provisions in the Credit Facility or any other future borrowing facility may limit our discretion in operating our business.. The Credit Facility is, and any future borrowing facility may be, backed by all or a portion of our loans and securities on which the lenders will or, in the case of a future facility, may have a security interest. We have pledged substantially all of our assets under the Credit Facility. We expect that any security interests we grant will be set forth in a guarantee pledge and security agreement and evidenced by the filing of financing statements by the agent for the lenders. In addition, we expect that the custodian for our securities serving as collateral for such loan would include in its electronic systems notices indicating the existence of such security interests and, enter into a control agreement that provides that following notice of occurrence of an event of default, if any, and during its continuance, the custodian will only accept transfer instructions with respect to any such securities from the lender or its designee. If we were to default under the terms of any debt instrument, the agent for the applicable lenders would be able to assume control of the timing of disposition of any or all of our assets securing such debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, any security interests granted by us as well as negative covenants under the Credit Facility or any other borrowing facility may provide may limit our ability to create liens on assets to secure additional debt and may make it difficult for us to restructure or refinance indebtedness at or prior to maturity or obtain additional debt or equity financing. For example, under the terms of the Credit Facility, we have agreed not to incur any additional secured indebtedness other than in certain limited circumstances as permitted under the Credit Facility. In addition, if our borrowing base under the Credit Facility or any other borrowing facility were to decrease, we would be required to secure additional assets in an amount equal to any borrowing base deficiency. In the event that all of our assets are secured at the time of such a borrowing base deficiency, we could be required to repay advances under the Credit Facility or any other borrowing facility, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund future investments and to make stockholder distributions.. In addition, under the Credit Facility we are subject to limitations as to how borrowed funds may be used, which include restrictions on geographic and industry concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, average life, collateral interests and investment ratings, as well as regulatory restrictions on leverage which may affect the amount of funding that may be obtained. There may also be certain requirements relating to portfolio performance, including required minimum portfolio yield and limitations on delinquencies and charge-offs, a violation of which could limit further advances and, in some cases,. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. result in an event of default. An event of default under the Credit Facility or any other borrowing facility could result in an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding thereunder, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the Credit Facility or any other borrowing facility until the lenders have been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our qualification as a RIC.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets.. We may be precluded from investing in what we believe to be attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could violate the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs. As a result of such violation, specific rules under the 1940 Act could prevent us, for example, from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position).. A general increase in interest rates will likely have the effect of increasing our net investment income, which would make it easier for our Adviser to receive incentive fees.. Given the structure of the Investment Advisory Agreement with our Adviser, any general increase in interest rates will likely have the effect of making it easier for our Adviser to meet the quarterly hurdle rate for payment of income incentive fees under the Investment Advisory Agreement without any additional increase in relative performance on the part of our Adviser. In addition, in view of the catch-up provision applicable to income incentive fees under the Investment Advisory Agreement, our Adviser could potentially receive a significant portion of the increase in our investment income attributable to such a general increase in interest rates. If that were to occur, our increase in net earnings, if any, would likely be significantly smaller than the relative increase in our Adviser's income incentive fee resulting from such a general increase in interest rates.. Most of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and quoted prices or observable inputs may not be available to determine such values, resulting in the use of significant unobservable inputs in our quarterly valuation process.. Most of our portfolio investments take the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of loans, securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable, and we value these investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors, including to reflect significant events affecting the value of our investments. Most, if not all, of our investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level 3 under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure, or ASC Topic 820. This means that our portfolio valuations are based on unobservable inputs and our own assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. Inputs into the determination of fair value of our portfolio investments require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data are available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. We have retained the services of an independent service provider to review the valuation of these loans and securities. The types of factors that the board of directors may take into account in determining the fair value of our investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of a portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from. 39. TABLE OF CONTENTS. the values that would have been used if a ready market for these loans and securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such loans and securities.. We will adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect our board of directors' determination of the fair value of each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our statement of operations as net change in unrealized appreciation or depreciation.. We are restricted in our ability to enter into transactions with entities deemed to be our affiliates, which may limit the scope of investments available to us.. As a BDC, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without, among other things, the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors who, have no financial interest in the transaction, or in some cases, the prior approval of the SEC. For example, any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is deemed our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and, if this is the only reason such person is our affiliate, we are generally prohibited from buying any asset from or selling any asset (other than our capital stock) to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of such directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits \"joint\" transactions with an affiliate, which could include co-investments in the same portfolio company, without approval of our independent directors or, in some cases, the prior approval of the SEC. Moreover, except in certain limited circumstances, we are prohibited from buying any asset from or selling any asset to a holder of more than 25% of our voting securities, absent prior approval of the SEC. The analysis of whether a particular transaction constitutes a joint transaction requires a review of the relevant facts and circumstances then existing.. On December 30, 2015, the SEC granted us relief sought in an exemptive application that expands our ability to co-invest in portfolio companies with certain other funds managed by the Adviser or its affiliates, subject to compliance with certain conditions. On February 28, 2018, the SEC issued a public notice with regard to a new exemptive application that we, our Adviser and certain of our affiliates filed with the SEC to expand our ability to co-invest in portfolio companies with certain other funds managed by our Adviser or certain of its affiliates, subject to compliance with certain conditions. The new exemptive application is substantially similar to the application for which we previously received an exemptive order from the SEC on December 30, 2015, except that it also permits us to co-invest in negotiated transactions with certain funds to which our Adviser serves as sub-adviser, including Stira Alcentra Global Credit Fund. Assuming that no requests for a hearing are received by the SEC in response to the notice, we expect the SEC to issue the exemptive order after the notice period expires on March 26, 2018. We intend to co-invest with certain of our affiliates, subject to the conditions included in the order and, upon its issuance, the new order. See, \"Regulation<U+2009> - <U+2009>Other.\". We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the loans and debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such loans and securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our securities less attractive to investors.. We are and we will remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act until the earlier of<U+2009> (a) the last day of the fiscal year (i) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO, (ii) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, or (iii) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (b) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. For as long as we remain an. 40. TABLE OF CONTENTS. emerging growth company we may take advantage of some or all of the reduced regulatory and disclosure requirements permitted by the JOBS Act and, as a result, some investors may consider our common stock less attractive, which could reduce the market value of our shares. For example, while we are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Exchange Act, we may take advantage of exemption from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This may increase the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, security holders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. Effective internal control over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We will likely remain an emerging growth company until December 31, 2019. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. Our board of directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval.. Our board of directors has the authority, except as otherwise provided in the 1940 Act, to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and the market price of our securities. Nevertheless, any such changes could adversely affect our business and impair our ability to make principal and interest payments on the InterNotes.. Our Adviser can resign as our investment adviser upon 60 days' notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, or at all, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. Our Adviser has the right under the Investment Advisory Agreement to resign as our investment adviser at any time upon not less than 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Adviser was to resign, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Adviser. Even if we are able to retain comparable. 41. TABLE OF CONTENTS. management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of our Adviser. In addition, certain of these systems are provided to our Adviser by third party service providers. Any failure or interruption of such systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any such third party service provider, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. There could be:. . sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. . natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. . disease pandemics;. . events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. . cyber-attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our securities, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Terrorist acts, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable.. We face cyber-security risks.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. 42. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss.. Risks Relating to our Investments. Our investments are risky and highly speculative, and the lower middle and middle-market companies we target may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet their future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity.. Investing in lower middle and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including:. . these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment;. . they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. . they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us;. . they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position;. . they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity; and. . a portion of our income may be non-cash income, such as contractual PIK interest, which represents interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Instruments bearing PIK interest typically carry higher interest rates as a result of their payment deferral and increased credit risk. When we recognize income in connection with PIK interest, there is a risk that such income may become uncollectable if the borrower defaults.. In addition to the risks associated with our investments in general, there are unique risks associated with our investments in each of these entities.. Investing in lower middle and middle-market companies involves a high degree of risk and our financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our significant portfolio investments defaults on its loans or fails to perform as we expect.. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in lower middle and middle-market companies. Investing in lower middle and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Typically, the debt in which we invest is not initially rated by any rating agency; however, we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade. Compared to larger publicly owned companies, these lower middle and middle-market companies may be in a weaker financial position and experience wider variations in their operating results, which may make them more vulnerable to economic downturns and other business disruptions. Typically, these companies need more capital to compete;. 43. TABLE OF CONTENTS. however, their access to capital is limited and their cost of capital is often higher than that of their competitors. Our portfolio companies face intense competition from larger companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources and their success typically depends on the managerial talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons.. Therefore, the loss of any of their key employees could affect a portfolio company's ability to compete effectively and harm its financial condition. Further, some of these companies conduct business in regulated industries that are susceptible to regulatory changes. These factors could impair the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in other events, such as bankruptcy. These events could limit a portfolio company's ability to repay its obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower's financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the loan's collateral and the fair market value of the loan.. Some of these companies cannot obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional credit sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of companies pose a higher default risk than loans made to companies that have access to traditional credit sources.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair us or our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. During economic recessions or downturns, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have to access, if available, alternative markets for debt and equity capital in order to grow. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as calculated in accordance with the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions than what we currently experience. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, economic recessions or downturns could make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness under similar terms and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Portfolio companies are likely to be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during such periods. Therefore, the portion of our investment portfolio composed of non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during such periods. Adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and debt securities and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the loans and debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we render significant managerial assistance to the borrower. Furthermore, if one of our portfolio companies were to file for bankruptcy protection, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors, even though we may have structured our investment as senior secured debt. The likelihood of such a re-characterization would depend on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company.. 44. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Changes to United States tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our portfolio companies and, in turn, harm us.. There has been on-going discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to United States trade policies, treaties and tariffs. The current administration, along with Congress, has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and other countries with respect to the trade policies, treaties and tariffs. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between the impacted nations and the United States. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our portfolio companies' access to suppliers or customers and have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn would negatively impact us.. Our investments in leveraged portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment.. Investment in leveraged companies involves a number of significant risks. Leveraged companies in which we invest may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans and debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees that we may have obtained in connection with our investment. Smaller leveraged companies also may have less predictable operating results and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance their expansion or maintain their competitive position.. We may hold the loans and debt securities of leveraged companies that may, due to the significant operating volatility typical of such companies, enter into bankruptcy proceedings.. Leveraged companies may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by a portfolio company may adversely and permanently affect that company. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the portfolio company may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor's return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor's estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial.. Our investments in private and middle-market portfolio companies are risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment.. Investment in private and middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we will rely on the ability of our Adviser's investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans and debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Additionally, middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons. Therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of. 45. TABLE OF CONTENTS. these persons could have a material adverse impact on one or more of the portfolio companies we invest in and, in turn, on us. Middle-market companies also may be parties to litigation and may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence. In addition, our executive officers, directors and Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in portfolio companies.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. All of our assets may be invested in illiquid loans and securities, and a substantial portion of our investments in leveraged companies will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than more broadly traded public securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Also, as noted above, we may be limited or prohibited in our ability to sell or otherwise exit certain positions in our initial portfolio as such a transaction could be considered a joint transaction prohibited by the 1940 Act.. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at fair value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our investments:. . available current market data, including relevant and applicable market trading and transaction comparables;. . applicable market yields and multiples;. . security covenants;. . call protection provisions;. . information rights;. . the nature and realizable value of any collateral;. . the portfolio company's ability to make payments, its earnings and discounted cash flows and the markets in which it does business;. . comparisons of financial ratios of peer companies that are public;. . comparable merger and acquisition transactions; and. . the principal market and enterprise values.. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. We record decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments as unrealized depreciation. Declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets may result in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. The effect of all of these factors on our portfolio may reduce our net asset value by increasing net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our. 46. TABLE OF CONTENTS. qualification as a RIC under the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers or our investments are concentrated in relatively few industries, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company.. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. We do not generally hold controlling equity positions in the majority of the portfolio companies included in our portfolio. In addition, we expect to not hold controlling equity positions in portfolio companies in which we will make future investments. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we expect to hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets. This could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize such portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the loans or debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and ability to make stockholder distributions and result in a decline in the market price of our shares.. We are subject to the risk that the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We expect that our investments will generally allow for repayment at any time subject to certain penalties. When this occurs, we intend to generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in accordance with our investment strategy. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our ability to make, or the amount of, principal and interest payments on the InterNotes, which could result in a decline in the market price of our securities.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We have historically invested and may continue to invest in second lien and subordinated loans issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the loans in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the loans in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with loans in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. 47. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Additionally, certain loans that we may make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies' collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of such senior debt. Under a typical intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens:. . the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral;. . the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings;. . the approval of amendments to collateral documents;. . releases of liens on the collateral; and. . waivers of past defaults under collateral documents.. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. If we make second lien and subordinated debt investments, the obligors or the portfolio companies may not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations to us.. We may make second lien and subordinated debt investments that rank below other obligations of the obligor in right of payment. Second lien and subordinated debt investments are subject to greater risk of default than senior obligations as a result of adverse changes in the financial condition of the obligor or economic conditions in general. If we make a second lien or subordinated debt investment in a portfolio company, the portfolio company may be highly leveraged, and its relatively high debt-to-equity ratio may create increased risks that its operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of its debt obligations.. The disposition of our investments may result in contingent liabilities.. We currently expect that substantially all of our investments will continue to involve loans and private securities. In connection with the disposition of an investment in loans and private securities, we may be. 48. TABLE OF CONTENTS. required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to potential liabilities. These arrangements may result in contingent liabilities that ultimately result in funding obligations that we must satisfy through our return of distributions previously made to us.. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. When we invest in loans and debt securities, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities of portfolio companies as well. We may also invest in equity securities directly. To the extent we hold equity investments, we will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and may decline in value. As a result, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience.. Our investments in non-U.S. companies may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in securities of non-U.S. companies to the extent permissible under the 1940 Act. See \"Item 1. Business<U+2009> - <U+2009>Regulation<U+2009> - <U+2009>Qualifying Assets\" for a discussion of our ability, as a BDC, to invest in securities of non-U.S. companies. Investing in non-U.S. companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of non-U.S. taxes (potentially at confiscatory levels), less liquid markets, less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility.. Our investments that are denominated in a non-U.S. currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments.. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions.. If we engage in hedging transactions we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. Such hedging may utilize instruments such as forward contract currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may include counter-party credit risk.. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price.. The success of any hedging transactions we may enter into will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in currencies and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to (or be able to) establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation. 49. TABLE OF CONTENTS. may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations.. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies.. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies' financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Energy companies could also be affected by the potential for lawsuits against or taxes or other regulatory costs imposed on greenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations of our portfolio companies, changes in the interpretation thereof or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain business practices of us or our portfolio companies, negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies.. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws and regulations at the local, state, federal and, in some cases, foreign levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, changes in their interpretation, or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain business practices of us or our portfolio companies, negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies.. Additionally, changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations related to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and may shift our investment focus from the areas of expertise of our Adviser to other types of investments in which our Adviser may have little or no expertise or experience. Any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.. Our portfolio companies in the healthcare and pharmaceutical services industry sector are subject to extensive government regulation and certain other risks particular to that industry.. One of our key industry sectors for investment is healthcare and pharmaceutical services. Our investments in portfolio companies that operate in this sector are subject to certain significant risks particular to that industry. The laws and rules governing the business of healthcare companies and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force our portfolio companies engaged in healthcare to change how they do business, restrict revenue, increase costs, change reserve levels and change business practices. Healthcare companies often must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of their products, change prices for certain regulated products and consummate some of their acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failing to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce revenue or increase costs. Policy changes on the local, state and federal level, such as the expansion of the government's role in the healthcare arena and alternative assessments and tax increases. 50. TABLE OF CONTENTS. specific to the healthcare industry or healthcare products as part of federal health care reform initiatives, could fundamentally change the dynamics of the healthcare industry. In particular, health insurance reform, including The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or Health Insurance Reform Legislation, could have a significant effect on our portfolio companies in this industry sector. As Health Insurance Reform Legislation is implemented, our portfolio companies in this industry sector may be forced to change how they do business. We can give no assurance that these portfolio companies will be able to adapt successfully in response to these changes. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in this industry sector and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us.. Our portfolio companies in the defense, homeland security and government services industry sector are subject to certain risks particular to that industry.. One of our key industry sectors for investment is defense, homeland security and government services. Investments in this sector are subject to certain significant risks particular to that industry. These businesses depend upon continued U.S. government expenditures on defense, homeland security and other services. These expenditures have not remained constant over time, have been reduced in certain periods and, recently, have been affected by the U.S. government's efforts to improve efficiency and reduce costs affecting federal government programs generally. These expenditures are also subject to budgetary constraints affecting U.S. government spending generally or specific agencies in particular. Furthermore, these businesses are generally subject to changes in the political climate and general economic conditions, including a slowdown of the economy or unstable economic conditions and responses to conditions, such as emergency spending, that reduce funds available for other government priorities.. Portfolio companies operating in the defense, homeland security and government services industry sector may be required to comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on these businesses and may subject them to civil or criminal penalties, termination of U.S. government contracts, and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with federal agencies, in the event they fail to comply. Further, these portfolio companies may derive significant amounts of their revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. Their revenue may be adversely affected if they are unable to compete effectively in the process or there are delays caused by their competitors protecting contract awards.. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in this industry sector and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments, in seeking to:. . increase or maintain in whole or in part our position as a creditor or equity ownership percentage in a portfolio company;. . exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or. . preserve or enhance the value of our investment.. We have discretion to make follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. Failure on our part to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements of the 1940 Act or the desire to maintain our qualification as a RIC.. 51. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, may trade at a discount to their net asset value.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount from their net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share of common stock may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. As of December 31, 2017, our net asset value per share was $11.09. The last reported sale price of a share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on March 13, 2018 was $7.70. If our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at its market price without first obtaining the approval of a majority of our stockholders (including a majority of our unaffiliated stockholders) and our independent directors for such issuance.. Our shares of common stock have a limited trading history and we cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not decline.. Our shares of common stock have a limited trading history and we cannot assure you that a public trading market will be sustained for such shares. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. We cannot assure you that the market price of shares of our common stock will not decline at any time. In addition, our common stock has traded below its net asset value, and if our common stock continues to trade below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at its market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders (including our unaffiliated stockholders) and our independent directors for such issuance.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. . price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. . investor demand for our shares;. . significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;. . changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs or BDCs;. . failure to qualify as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status;. . any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;. . changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments;. . departures of our Adviser's key personnel;. . operating performance of companies comparable to us; or. . general economic conditions and trends and other external factors.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. 52. TABLE OF CONTENTS. There is no assurance that our stock repurchase program will result in repurchases of our common stock or enhance long term stockholder value, and repurchases, if any, could affect our stock price and increase its volatility and will diminish our cash reserves.. On November 2, 2017, our board of directors authorized a $2.5 million discretionary open-market share repurchase program under which we may repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market until the earlier of<U+2009> (i) November 2, 2018 or (ii) the repurchase of<U+2009> $2.5 million in aggregate amount of our common stock. On November 16, 2017, our board of directors authorized an extension of, and an increase in the amount of shares of our common stock that may be repurchased under, the discretionary share repurchase program until the earlier of<U+2009> (i) January 31, 2019 or (ii) the repurchase of<U+2009> $5.0 million in aggregate amount of our common stock. The timing, manner, price and amount of any stock repurchases will be determined by our board of directors and our management, in their discretion, based upon the evaluation of economic conditions, stock price, the timing of open trading windows, the availability of adequate funds, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, applicable legal and regulatory requirements and other factors.. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number or dollar amount of shares of common stock, and we may modify, suspend or discontinue the stock repurchase program at any time. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will, in fact, occur, or, if they occur, that they will enhance stockholder value.. In addition, the stock repurchase program could have a material and adverse effect on our business for the following reasons:. . Repurchases may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources.. . Repurchases will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities.. . We may incur debt in connection with our business in the event that we use other cash resources to repurchase shares, which may affect the financial performance of our business during future periods or our liquidity and the availability of capital for other needs of the business.. . Repurchases could affect the trading price of our common stock or increase its volatility and may reduce the market liquidity for our stock.. . Repurchases may not be made at the best possible price and the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock.. . Any suspension, modification or discontinuance of the stock repurchase program could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.. . Repurchases may make it more difficult for us to meet the diversification requirements necessary to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; failure to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC would render our taxable income subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes.. . Repurchases may cause our non-compliance with leverage covenants under the Credit Facility or the terms of the indenture under which the InterNotes are issued, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Risks Relating to the InterNotes. The InterNotes are unsecured and therefore are effectively subordinated to the secured indebtedness we have outstanding and may incur in the future.. The InterNotes are not secured by any of our assets and will not be secured by any of the assets of any future subsidiaries and will rank equally in right of payment of our future structurally subordinated, unsecured senior indebtedness. As a result, the InterNotes are subordinated to any secured indebtedness we or our subsidiaries have currently outstanding and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured to which we subsequently grant security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing. 53. TABLE OF CONTENTS. such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of our existing or future secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of any future subsidiaries may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including the holders of the InterNotes. As of December 31, 2017 we had $89.7 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. The indebtedness under the Credit Facility is effectively senior to the InterNotes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.. The InterNotes are structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of any future subsidiaries.. The InterNotes are obligations exclusively of Alcentra Capital Corporation and not of our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the InterNotes and the InterNotes are not required to be guaranteed by any subsidiaries we may acquire or create in the future. Except to the extent we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, all claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will have priority over our equity interests in such subsidiaries (and therefore the claims of our creditors, including holders of the InterNotes) with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries. Even if we are recognized as a creditor of one or more of our subsidiaries, our claims would still be subordinated to any security interests in the assets of any such subsidiary and to any indebtedness or other liabilities of any such subsidiary senior to our claims. Consequently, the InterNotes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of any of our subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that we may in the future acquire or establish. In addition, our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, all of which would be structurally senior to the InterNotes.. The indenture under which the InterNotes are issued contains limited protection for holders of the InterNotes.. The indenture under which the InterNotes are issued offers limited protection to holders of the InterNotes. The terms of the indenture and the InterNotes do not restrict our or any of our subsidiaries' ability to engage in, or otherwise be a party to, a variety of corporate transactions, circumstances or events that could have an adverse impact on your investment in the InterNotes. In particular, the terms of the indenture and the InterNotes will not place any restrictions on our or our subsidiaries' ability to:. . issue securities or otherwise incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, including (1) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be equal in right of payment to the InterNotes, (2) any indebtedness or other obligations that would be secured and therefore rank effectively senior in right of payment to the InterNotes to the extent of the values of the assets securing such debt, (3) indebtedness of ours that is guaranteed by one or more of our subsidiaries and which therefore is structurally senior to the InterNotes and (4) securities, indebtedness or obligations issued or incurred by our subsidiaries or that would be senior to our equity interests in those entities and therefore rank structurally senior to the InterNotes with respect to the assets of our subsidiaries, in each case other than an incurrence of indebtedness or other obligation at a time when our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is below 200% after incurring such indebtedness or obligation, but giving effect, in each case, to any exemptive relief granted to us by the SEC;. . pay dividends on, or purchase or redeem or make any payments in respect of, capital stock or other securities ranking junior in right of payment to the InterNotes, including subordinated indebtedness;. . sell assets (other than certain limited restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets);. . enter into transactions with affiliates;. . make investments; or. . create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our subsidiaries.. In addition, the indenture does not require us to offer to purchase the InterNotes in connection with a change of control or any other event.. 54. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Furthermore, the terms of the indenture and the InterNotes do not protect holders of the InterNotes in the event that we experience changes (including significant adverse changes) in our financial condition, results of operations or credit ratings, as they do not require that we or our subsidiaries adhere to any financial tests or ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow, or liquidity other than as described under.. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the InterNotes may have important consequences as a holder of the InterNotes, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the InterNotes or negatively affecting the trading value of the InterNotes.. Other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indenture and the InterNotes, including additional covenants and events of default. For example, the indenture under which the InterNotes are issued does not contain cross-default provisions that are contained in the Credit Facility. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the InterNotes.. We cannot assure that a trading market for the InterNotes will ever develop or be maintained.. In evaluating the InterNotes, a holder of the InterNotes should assume that they will be holding the InterNotes until their stated maturity. The InterNotes are a new issue of securities and will not be listed on an exchange or quoted through a quotation system. We cannot assure you that a trading market for the InterNotes will ever develop, be liquid or be maintained. Many factors independent of our creditworthiness affect the trading market for and market value of the InterNotes. Those factors include, without limitation:. . the method of calculating the principal and interest for the InterNotes;. . the time remaining to the stated maturity of the InterNotes;. . the outstanding amount of the InterNotes;. . the redemption or repayment features of the InterNotes; and. . the level, direction and volatility of interest rates generally.. There may be a limited number of buyers when you decide to sell the InterNotes. This may affect the price a holder of the InterNotes receives for InterNotes or the ability to sell InterNotes at all.. Certain options under the InterNotes may be limited in amount.. The InterNotes contain a provision permitting the optional repayment of those InterNotes prior to stated maturity, if requested by the authorized representative of the beneficial owner of those InterNotes, following the death of the beneficial owner of the InterNotes, so long as the InterNotes were owned by the beneficial owner or his or her estate at least six months prior to the request. We refer to this option as the \"Survivor's Option.\" We will have a discretionary right to limit the aggregate principal amount of InterNotes subject to the Survivor's Option that may be exercised in any calendar year to an amount equal to 2% of the outstanding principal amount of all InterNotes outstanding as of the end of the most recent calendar year. We also have the discretionary right to limit to $250,000 in any calendar year the aggregate principal amount of InterNotes subject to the Survivor's Option that may be exercised in such calendar year on behalf of any individual deceased beneficial owner of InterNotes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that exercise of the Survivor's Option for the desired amount will be permitted in any single calendar year.. We may choose to redeem the InterNotes when prevailing interest rates are relatively low.. After the first anniversary of the issuance of the InterNotes, we may choose to redeem the InterNotes from time to time, especially when prevailing interest rates are lower than the rate borne by the InterNotes. If prevailing rates are lower at the time of redemption, a holder of the InterNotes would not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the interest rate on the InterNotes being redeemed. Our redemption right also may adversely impact the ability to sell the InterNotes as the optional redemption date or period approaches.. 55. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness other than the InterNotes, we may not be able to make payments on the InterNotes.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $89.7 million of indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Credit Facility or other indebtedness to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the InterNotes and substantially decrease the market value of the InterNotes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including the Credit Facility), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under the Credit Facility or other debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in the future is, to some extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Credit Facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the InterNotes and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs.. If our operating performance declines and we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may in the future need to refinance or restructure our debt, including any InterNotes sold, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, seek to raise additional capital or seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the Credit Facility or other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the InterNotes and our other debt. If we breach our covenants under the Credit Facility or other debt and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the Credit Facility or other debt, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Credit Facility has, and any future credit facilities will likely have, customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness under the InterNotes, the Credit Facility or under any future credit facility is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due."
