[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. A&B's business and its common stock are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K and the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on information currently known, A&B believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting A&B's business and its common stock. However, the risks and uncertainties faced by A&B are not limited to those described below, nor are they listed in order of significance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to A&B or that it currently believes to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect A&B's business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.. If any of the following events occur, A&B's business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected, and the trading price of A&B common stock could materially decline.. Risks Related to REIT Status. Qualification as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (\"Code\").. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions to our operations, as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.. 13. There are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations of these provisions. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification.. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We have determined that we operated in compliance with the REIT requirements commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2017. Our qualification and taxation as a REIT depends on our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, various requirements concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature of our assets, the diversity of our share ownership and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Although we intend to operate in a manner consistent with the REIT requirements, we cannot assure you that we will remain so qualified.. If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to U.S. federal and state income tax (including, for the 2017 taxable year, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.  However, for taxable years that begin after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, shareholders that are individuals, trusts or estates are generally entitled to a deduction equal to 20% of the aggregate amount of ordinary income dividends received from a REIT, subject to certain limitations.. Our significant use of taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\") may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.. The net income of our TRSs is not required to be transferred to us, and such TRS income that is not transferred to us is generally not subject to our REIT distribution requirements. However, if the accumulation of cash or reinvestment of  significant earnings in our TRSs causes the fair market value of our securities in those entities, taken together with other non-qualifying assets, to represent more than 25% of the fair market value of our total assets, or causes the fair market value of our TRS securities alone to exceed 25% (or, for 2018 and subsequent taxable years, 20%) of the fair market value of our total assets, in each case as determined for REIT asset testing purposes, we would, absent timely responsive action, fail to qualify as a REIT.. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to sell assets or forgo otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy various requirements concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. For example, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our total assets consists of some combination of \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code), cash, cash items and U.S. government securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of  the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% (or, for 2018 and subsequent taxable years, 20%) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to sell assets or forgo otherwise attractive investment opportunities. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders and amounts available for making payments on our indebtedness.. We may be required to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and grow.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, to qualify as a REIT. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains, we will be subject to tax at ordinary corporate tax rates on the retained portion. In addition, we will be subject. 14. to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity or adversely impact our ability to raise short- and long- term debt. Furthermore, the REIT distribution requirements may increase the financing we need to fund capital expenditures and further growth and expansion initiatives. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Whether we issue equity, at what price and the amount and other terms of any such issuances will depend on many factors, including alternative sources of capital, our then-existing leverage, our need for additional capital, market conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the percentage of stock owned by our existing shareholders may be reduced. In addition, new equity securities or convertible debt securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current shareholders, which could substantially decrease the value of our securities owned by them. Depending on the share price we are able to obtain, we may have to sell a significant number of shares to raise the capital we deem necessary to execute our long-term strategy, and our shareholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares as a result.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to income from \"qualified dividends\" payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates applicable to qualified dividends. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. However, for taxable years that begin after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, shareholders that are individuals, trusts or estates are generally entitled to a deduction equal to 20% of the aggregate amount of ordinary income dividends received from a REIT, subject to certain limitations.. The REIT ownership limitations and transfer restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common stock, and could have unintended antitakeover effects.. For us to satisfy the REIT requirements, no more than 50% in value of all classes or series of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year beginning with our 2018 taxable year. In addition, our capital stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year beginning with our 2018 taxable year. Among other things, our articles of incorporation generally restrict shareholders from owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares. Under applicable constructive ownership rules, any shares of stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the stock ownership limits. These ownership limitations may prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common stock.. Furthermore, the ownership limitations and transfer restrictions contained in our articles of incorporation may delay, deter or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. As a result, the overall effect of the ownership limitations and transfer restrictions may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our shareholders. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock.. Our cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate.. A REIT generally is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains). Generally, we expect to distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income, including net capital gains, so as to not be subject to the income or excise tax. 15. on undistributed REIT taxable income. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine on a quarterly basis the amount of cash to be distributed to our shareholders based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions, that may impose limitations on cash payments and plans for future acquisitions and divestitures. Consequently, our distribution levels may fluctuate.. Certain of our business activities may be subject to corporate level income tax and other taxes, which would reduce our cash flows, and would cause potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities.. Our TRS assets and operations will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates. We may also be subject to a variety of other taxes, including payroll taxes and state, local, and foreign income, property, transfer and other taxes on assets and operations. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT. We also could incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's length basis, or we also could be subject to tax in situations and on transactions not presently contemplated. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash.. If we dispose of an asset held at the REIT level during our first five years as a REIT, we also will be subject to a federal corporate level tax on the gain recognized from such sale, up to the amount of the built-in gain that existed on January 1, 2017, which is based on the fair market value of such asset in excess of our tax basis in such asset as of January 1, 2017. We currently do not expect to sell any asset if the sale would result in the imposition   of a material tax liability. We cannot, however, assure you that we will not change our plans in this regard.. In addition, the IRS and any state or local tax authority may successfully assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time we qualified as a REIT, in which case we will owe these taxes plus applicable interest and penalties, if any. Moreover, any increase in taxable income for these pre-REIT periods will likely result in an increase in pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits, which could cause us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our shareholders after the relevant determination.. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in \"prohibited transactions\" may limit our ability to engage in transactions that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. The term \"prohibited transaction\" generally includes a sale or other disposition of property (including mortgage loans, but other than foreclosure property, as discussed below) that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our trade or business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a prohibited transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We intend to conduct our operations so that no asset that we own (or are treated as owning) will be treated as, or as having been, held for sale to customers, and that a sale of any such asset will not be treated as having been in the ordinary course of our business. As a result, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, whether property is held \"primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business\" depends on the particular facts and circumstances. No assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with certain safe-harbor provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that would prevent such treatment. The 100% prohibited transaction tax does not apply to gains from the sale of property that is held through a TRS or other taxable corporation, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. We intend to structure our activities to prevent prohibited transaction characterization.. Changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws could materially affect us and our stockholders.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common equity. The U.S. federal income tax rules dealing with REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act made substantial changes to the Code. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers that generally but not universally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to ''sunset'' provisions, the elimination or modification of various currently allowed deductions (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest and, in the case of individuals, the deduction for personal state. 16. and local taxes), certain additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, and preferential rates of taxation on most ordinary REIT dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers.. The effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common equity and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or market conditions generally. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. There may also be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the effect and timing of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders.. You are urged to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our stock.. Changes to the Hawai`i tax code could result in increased state-level taxation of REITs doing business in Hawai`i or mandated state-level withholding of taxes on REIT dividends.. The Hawai`i State legislature has recently considered legislation that would eliminate the REIT dividends paid deduction for Hawai`i State income tax purposes for income generated in Hawai`i for a number of years or permanently. Such a repeal could result in double taxation of REIT income in Hawai`i under the Hawai`i tax code, reduce returns to shareholders and make our stock less attractive to investors, which could in turn lower the value of our stock. The Hawai`i State legislature also has considered mandating withholding of Hawai`i State income tax on dividends paid to out-of-state shareholders. Such shareholders may not be able to receive a credit of these taxes from their home state, thereby resulting in double taxation of such dividends. This could reduce returns to shareholders and make our stock less attractive to investors, which could in turn lower the value or our stock.. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification, without shareholder approval, may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation provide that the board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our anticipated REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income, and we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our shareholders.. We have limited experience operating as a REIT, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy debt service obligations, as well as the per share trading price of our common stock.. We have begun operating in compliance with the REIT requirements for the taxable year ended December 31, 2017. Accordingly, our senior management team has limited experience operating a REIT, and we cannot assure you that our past operating experience will be sufficient to operate our company successfully as a REIT. Our limited experience operating as a REIT could, by adversely affecting our ability to remain qualified as a REIT or otherwise, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy debt service obligations, as well as the per share trading price of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock, though they may not be successful in preserving our qualification for taxation as a REIT.. For us to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than the first year for which we elect to be taxed as a REIT. In addition, a person actually or constructively owning 10% or more of the vote or value of the shares of our capital stock could lead to a level of affiliation between the Company and one or more of its tenants that could cause our revenues from such affiliated tenants to not qualify as rents from real property.  Subject to certain exceptions, our articles of incorporation prohibit any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively more than (i) 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our capital stock or (ii) 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock.. 17. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the \"ownership limits\" and we included them in our articles of incorporation to facilitate our compliance with REIT tax rules. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock (or the outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Even though our articles of incorporation contain the ownership limits, there can be no assurance that these provisions will be effective to prevent our qualification for taxation as a REIT from being jeopardized, including under the affiliated tenant rule. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce the ownership limits. If the restrictions in our articles of incorporation are not effective and as a result we fail to satisfy the REIT tax rules described above, then absent an applicable relief provision, we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT.. Risks Related to Our Business. Changes in economic conditions may result in a decrease in market demand for our real estate assets in Hawai`i and the Mainland and our materials and construction products.. Our business, including our assets and operations, is concentrated in Hawai`i. A weakening of economic drivers in Hawai`i, which include tourism, military and consumer spending, public and private construction starts and spending, personal income growth, and employment, or the weakening of consumer confidence, market demand, or economic conditions on the Mainland, may adversely affect the demand for or sale of Hawai`i real estate, the level of real estate leasing activity in Hawai`i and on the Mainland, and demand for our materials and construction products. In addition, an increase in interest rates or other factors could reduce the market value of our real estate holdings, as well as increase the cost of buyer financing that may reduce the demand for our real estate assets.. We may face new or increased competition.. There are numerous other developers, buyers, managers and owners of commercial and residential real estate and undeveloped land that compete or may compete with us for management and leasing revenues, land for development, properties for acquisition and disposition, and for tenants and purchasers of properties. Intense competition could lead to increased vacancies, increased tenant incentives, decreased rents, sales prices or sales volume, or lack of development opportunities.. Our wholly owned subsidiary Grace Pacific LLC (\"Grace\" or \"Grace Pacific\") competes in an industry that favors the lowest bid.  Increasing competitive market conditions, including out-of-state or new in-state contractors competing for a limited number of projects available, could adversely impact our results of operations through market share erosion due to lost bids, as well as lower pricing and thus lower margins realized on successful bids. Grace also mines aggregate and imports asphalt for sale. Grace's customers could seek alternative sources of supply, similar to some of its competitors that are importing liquid asphalt and aggregate.. We may face potential difficulties in obtaining operating and development capital.. The successful execution of our strategy requires substantial amounts of operating and development capital. Sources of such capital could include banks, life insurance companies, public and private offerings of debt or equity, including rights offerings, sale of certain assets and joint venture partners. If our credit profile deteriorates significantly, our access to the debt capital markets or our ability to renew our committed lines of credit may become restricted, the cost to borrow may increase, or we may not be able to refinance debt at the same levels or on the same terms. Further, we rely on our ability to obtain and draw on a revolving credit facility to support our operations. Volatility in the credit and financial markets or deterioration in our credit profile may prevent us from accessing funds. There is no assurance that any capital will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all to satisfy our short or long-term cash needs.. We may raise additional capital in the future on terms that are more stringent to us, that could provide holders of new issuances rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those currently held by our common stockholders, or that could result in dilution of common stock ownership.. To execute our business strategy, we may require additional capital. If we incur additional debt or raise equity, the terms of the debt or equity issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more. 18. stringent restrictions on our operations than currently in place. If we issue additional common equity, either through public or private offerings or rights offerings, your percentage ownership in us would decline if you do not participate on a ratable basis.. Failure to comply with certain restrictive financial covenants contained in our credit facilities could impose restrictions on our business segments, capital availability or the ability to pursue other activities.. Our credit facilities and term debt contain certain restrictive financial covenants. If we breach any of the covenants and such breach is not cured in a timely manner or waived by the lenders, and results in default, our access to credit may be limited or terminated and the lenders could declare any outstanding amounts immediately due and payable.. Increasing interest rates would increase our overall interest expense.. Interest expense on our floating-rate debt ($75.9 million as of December 31, 2017) would increase if interest rates rise. Additionally, the interest expense associated with fixed-rate debt could rise in future periods when the debt matures and is refinanced. Furthermore, the value of our commercial real estate portfolio and the market price of our stock could decline if market interest rates increase and investors seek alternative investments with higher distribution rates.. Our significant operating agreements and leases could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced.. Our various businesses have significant operating agreements and leases that expire at various points in the future. These agreements and leases may not be renewed or could be replaced on less favorable terms.. An increase in fuel prices may adversely affect our operating environment and costs.. Fuel prices have a direct impact on the health of the Hawai`i economy. Increases in the price of fuel may result in higher transportation costs to Hawai`i and adversely affect visitor counts and the cost of goods shipped to Hawai`i, thereby affecting the strength of the Hawai`i economy and its consumers. Increases in fuel costs also can lead to other non-recoverable, direct expense increases to us through, for example, increased costs of energy and petroleum-based raw materials used in the production of aggregate, and the manufacture, transportation, and placement of hot mix asphalt. Increases in energy costs for our leased real estate portfolio are typically recovered from lessees, although our share of energy costs increases as a result of lower occupancies, and higher operating cost reimbursements impact the ability to increase underlying rents. Rising fuel prices also may increase the cost of construction, including delivery costs to Hawai`i, and the cost of materials that are petroleum-based, thus affecting our real estate development projects and margins.. Noncompliance with, or changes to, federal, state or local law or regulations may adversely affect our business.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including government rate, land use, environmental and tax regulations. Noncompliance with, or changes to, the laws and regulations governing our business could impose significant additional costs on us and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the real estate segments are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, which, if changed, or not complied with may adversely affect our business. We frequently utilize §1031 of the Code to defer taxes when selling qualifying real estate and reinvesting the proceeds in replacement properties. This often occurs when we sell bulk parcels of land in Hawai`i or commercial properties in Hawai`i or on the Mainland, all of which typically have a very low tax basis. A repeal of or adverse amendment to §1031 of the Code, which has often been considered by Congress, could impose significant additional costs on us. We are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations, Environmental Protection Agency regulations, and state and county permits related to our operations. The Materials & Construction segment is additionally subject to Mine Safety and Health Administration regulations. The Land Operations segment is subject the Hawai`i Public Utilities Commission's regulation of agreements between us and Hawai`i's utilities regarding the sale of electric power, and various county, state and federal environmental laws, regulations and permits governing farming operations and generation of electricity (including, for example, the use of pesticides).. Changes to, or our violation of or inability to comply with any of the laws, regulations and permits mentioned above could increase our operating costs or ability to operate the affected line of business.. Work stoppages or other labor disruptions by our unionized employees or those of other companies in related industries may increase operating costs or adversely affect our ability to conduct business.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 53 percent of our regular full-time employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. We may be adversely affected by actions taken by our employees or those of other companies in related industries against efforts by management to control labor costs, restrain wage or benefits increases or. 19. modify work practices. Strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of our failure or that of other companies in our industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully. For example, in our Materials & Construction segment, a labor disruption resulting from a unionized workforce stoppage may significantly impede our production and ability to complete projects that are in process.  Additionally, in our Land Operations segment, we may be unable to complete construction of a development-for-sale project if building materials or labor are unavailable due to labor disruptions in the relevant trade groups.. The loss of or damage to key vendor and customer relationships may impact our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our profitability.. Our business is dependent on our relationships with key vendors, customers and tenants. The loss of or damage to any of these key relationships may impact our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our profitability.. Interruption, breaches or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to operate, adversely affect our profitability and damage our reputation.. We are dependent on information technology systems. All information technology and communication systems are subject to reliability issues, integration and compatibility concerns and cybersecurity-threatening intrusions. Further, we may experience failures caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities. Any failure, or security breaches, of our systems could result in interruptions in our service or production, increased cost, lower profitability and damage to our reputation.. We are susceptible to weather and natural disasters.. Our Commercial Real Estate and Land Operations segments are vulnerable to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, fires, tornadoes and unusually heavy or prolonged rain, which could cause personal injury and loss of life.  In addition, natural disasters could damage our real estate holdings, which could result in substantial repair or replacement costs to the extent not covered by insurance, a reduction in property values, or a loss of revenue, and could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop, lease and sell properties. The occurrence of natural disasters could also cause increases in property insurance rates and deductibles, which could reduce demand for, or increase the cost of owning or developing our properties.. Drought, greater than normal rainfall, hurricanes, low-wind conditions, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, fires, other natural disasters, agricultural pestilence, or negligence or intentional malfeasance by individuals, may also adversely impact the conditions of the land and thereby harming the prospects for the Land Operations segment, including agribusiness-related activities, our renewable energy operations, and our land infrastructure and facilities, including dams and reservoirs.. For the Materials & Construction segment, because nearly all of the segment's activities are performed outdoors, its operations are substantially dependent on weather conditions. For example, periods of wet or other adverse weather conditions could interrupt paving activities, resulting in delayed or loss of revenue, under-utilization of crews and equipment and less efficient rates of overhead recovery. Adverse weather conditions also restrict the demand for aggregate products, increase aggregate production costs and impede its ability to efficiently transport material.. We maintain casualty insurance under policies we believe to be adequate and appropriate. These policies are generally subject to large retentions and deductibles. Some types of losses, such as losses resulting from physical damage to dams, generally are not insured. In some cases we retain the entire risk of loss because it is not economically prudent to purchase insurance coverage or because of the perceived remoteness of the risk. Other risks are uninsured because insurance coverage may not be commercially available. Finally, we retain all risk of loss that exceeds the limits of our insurance.. Heightened security measures, war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism and other acts of violence may adversely impact our operations and profitability.. As our business is concentrated in Hawai`i, an attack on Hawai`i as a result of war or terrorism may severely or irreparably harm the Company, including our real estate holdings, our facilities and information technology systems, and personnel.. War, geopolitical instability, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence may also cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease, or may affect the ability or willingness of tourists to travel to Hawai`i, thereby adversely affecting. 20. Hawai`i's economy and us. Future terrorist attacks could also increase the volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business.. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of our key personnel, including our senior management and skilled employees. The loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our future operating results because of such employee's experience, knowledge of our business and relationships. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our personnel.. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, disputes, legal or other proceedings, or government inquiries or investigations, that could have an adverse effect on us.. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes, legal or other proceedings, or government inquiries or investigations, relating to labor and employment matters, contractual disputes, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters, construction litigation, business practices, and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this section. These disputes, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by us. As a real estate developer, we may face warranty and construction defect claims, as described below under \"Risks Relating to Our Land Operations Segment.\". Changes in the value of pension assets, or a change in pension law or key assumptions, may result in increased expenses or plan contributions.. The amount of our employee pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations are calculated on assumptions used in the relevant actuarial calculations. Adverse changes in any of these assumptions due to economic or other factors, changes in discount rates, higher health care costs, or lower actual or expected returns on plan assets, may result in increased cost or required plan contributions. In addition, a change in federal law, including changes to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation premiums, may adversely affect our single-employer pension plans and plan funding. These factors, as well as a decline in the fair value of pension plan assets, may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits and may increase future pension expense and required funding contributions. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in limiting future cost and expense increases.. Risks Relating to Our Commercial Real Estate Segment. We are subject to risks associated with real estate construction and development.. Our redevelopment and development-for-hold projects are subject to risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget or being prevented from completion include, but are not limited to:. • our inability to secure sufficient financing or insurance on favorable terms, or at all;. • construction delays, defects, or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs;. • an increase in commodity or construction costs, including labor costs;. • the discovery of hazardous or toxic substances, or other environmental, culturally-sensitive, or related issues;. • an inability to obtain, or a significant delay in obtaining, zoning, construction, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. • difficulty in complying with local, city, county and state rules and regulations regarding permitting, zoning, subdivision, utilities, water quality, as well as federal rules and regulations regarding air and water quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats;. • insufficient infrastructure capacity or availability (e.g., water, sewer and roads) to serve the needs of our projects;. • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support the project or maintain compliance with debt covenants;. • failure to achieve or sustain anticipated occupancy levels;. • condemnation of all or parts of development or operating properties, which could adversely affect the value or viability of such projects; and. • instability in the financial industry could reduce the availability of financing.. 21. Significant instability in the financial industry like that experienced during the financial crisis of 2008-2009, may result in, among other things, declining property values and increasing defaults on loans. This, in turn, could lead to increased regulations, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for virtually all borrowers. Deterioration in the credit environment may also impact us in other ways, including the credit or solvency of vendors, tenants, or joint venture partners, the ability of partners to fund their financial obligations to joint ventures and our access to mortgage financing for our own properties.. We are subject to a number of factors that could cause leasing rental income to decline.. We own a portfolio of commercial income properties. Factors that may adversely affect the portfolio's profitability include, but are not limited to:. • a significant number of our tenants are unable to meet their obligations;. • increases in non-recoverable operating and ownership costs;. • we are unable to lease space at our properties when the space becomes available;. • the rental rates upon a renewal or a new lease are significantly lower than prior rents or do not increase sufficiently to cover increases in operating and ownership costs;. • the providing of lease concessions, such as free or discounted rents and tenant improvement allowances; and. • the discovery of hazardous or toxic substances, or other environmental, culturally-sensitive, or related issues at the property.. The bankruptcy of key tenants may adversely affect our cash flows and profitability.. We may derive significant cash flows and earnings from certain key tenants. If one or more of these tenants declares bankruptcy or voluntarily vacates from the leased premise and we are unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms, we may be adversely impacted. Additionally, we may be further adversely impacted by an impairment or \"write-down\" of intangible assets, such as lease-in-place value, favorable lease asset, or a deferred asset related to straight-line lease rent, associated with a tenant bankruptcy or vacancy.. Our financial results are significantly influenced by the economic growth and strength of Hawai`i.. All of our redevelopment and development-for-hold activity is conducted in Hawai`i. Consequently, the growth and strength of Hawai`i's economy has a significant impact on the demand for our real estate development projects. As a result, any adverse change to the growth or health of Hawai`i's economy could have an adverse effect on our commercial real estate business.. The value of our development-for-hold projects and commercial properties is affected by a number of factors.. We have significant investments in various commercial real estate properties and development-for-hold projects. Weakness in the real estate sector, especially in Hawai`i, difficulty in obtaining or renewing project-level financing, and changes in our investment and redevelopment and development-for-hold strategy, among other factors, may affect the fair value of these real estate assets. If the undiscounted cash flows of our commercial properties or redevelopment or development-for-hold projects were to decline below the carrying value of those assets, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss if the fair value of those assets were below their carrying value.. Risks Relating to Our Land Operations Segment. We are subject to risks associated with real estate construction and development.. Our development-for-sale projects are subject to risks relating to our ability to complete our projects on time and on budget. Factors that may result in a development project exceeding budget or being prevented from completion include, but are not limited to:. • our inability or that of buyers to secure sufficient financing or insurance on favorable terms, or at all;. • construction delays, defects, or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs;. • an increase in commodity or construction costs, including labor costs;. • the discovery of hazardous or toxic substances, or other environmental, culturally-sensitive, or related issues;. • an inability to obtain, or a significant delay in obtaining, zoning, construction, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. 22. • difficulty in complying with local, city, county and state rules and regulations regarding permitting, zoning, subdivision, utilities, affordable housing and water quality, as well as federal rules and regulations regarding air and water quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats;. • insufficient infrastructure capacity or availability (e.g., water, sewer and roads) to serve the needs of our projects;. • an inability to secure buyers necessary to support the project or maintain compliance with debt covenants;. • failure to achieve or sustain anticipated sales levels;. • buyer defaults, including defaults under executed or binding contracts;. • condemnation of all or parts of development or operating properties, which could adversely affect the value or viability of such projects;. • an inability to sell our constructed inventory; and. • instability in the financial industry could reduce the availability of financing.. Significant instability in the financial industry like that experienced during the financial crisis of 2008-2009, may result in, among other things, declining property values and increasing defaults on loans. This, in turn, could lead to increased regulations, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for virtually all borrowers. Fewer loan products and strict loan qualifications make it more difficult for borrowers to finance the purchase of units in our projects. Additionally, more stringent requirements to obtain financing for buyers of commercial properties make it significantly more difficult for us to sell commercial properties and may negatively impact the sales prices and other terms of such sales. Deterioration in the credit environment may also impact us in other ways, including the credit or solvency of customers, vendors, or joint venture partners, the ability of partners to fund their financial obligations to joint ventures and our access to mortgage financing for our own properties.. Governmental entities have adopted or may adopt regulatory requirements that may restrict our development activity.. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning and permitted land uses. Government entities have adopted or may approve regulations or laws that could negatively impact the availability of land and development opportunities within those areas. It is possible that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on developers in the future that could adversely affect our ability to develop projects in the affected markets or could require that we satisfy additional administrative and regulatory requirements, which could delay development progress or increase the development costs to us.. Real estate development projects are subject to warranty and construction defect claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant.. In our development-for-sale projects, we are subject to warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The amounts payable under these claims, both in legal fees and remedying any construction defects, can be significant and could exceed the profits made from the project. As a consequence, we may maintain liability insurance, obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from contractors generally covering claims related to workmanship and materials, and create warranty and other reserves for projects based on historical experience and qualitative risks associated with the type of project built. Because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage, contractor arrangements and reserves will be adequate to address some or all of our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. For example, contractual indemnities may be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of liability insurance for construction defects could be limited or costly. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that such coverage will be adequate, available at an acceptable cost, or available at all.. We are involved in joint ventures and subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships.. We are involved in joint venture relationships and may initiate future joint venture projects. A joint venture involves certain risks such as, among others:. • we may not have voting control over the joint venture;. • we may not be able to maintain good relationships with our venture partners;. • the venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with our economic or business interests;. 23. • the venture partner may fail to fund its share of capital for operations and development activities or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to us;. • the joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel;. • the venture partner could become insolvent, requiring us to assume all risks and capital requirements related to the joint venture project, and any resulting bankruptcy proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the project or the joint venture; and. • we may be required to perform on guarantees we have provided or agree to provide in the future related to the completion of a joint venture's construction and development of a project, joint venture indebtedness, or on indemnification of a third party serving as surety for a joint venture's bonds for such completion.. Our financial results are significantly influenced by the economic growth and strength of Hawai`i.. Virtually all of our real estate development activity is conducted in Hawai`i. Consequently, the growth and strength of Hawai`i's economy has a significant impact on the demand for our real estate development projects. As a result, any adverse change to the growth or health of Hawai`i's economy could have an adverse effect on our real estate business.. The value of our development projects is affected by a number of factors.. We have significant investments in various development projects and joint venture investments. Weakness in the real estate sector, especially in Hawai`i, difficulty in obtaining or renewing project-level financing, and changes in our investment and development strategy, among other factors, may affect the fair value of these real estate assets owned by us or by our joint ventures. If the fair value of our joint venture development projects were to decline below the carrying value of those assets, and that decline was other-than-temporary, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss. Additionally, if the undiscounted cash flows of our development projects were to decline below the carrying value of those assets, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss if the fair value of those assets were below their carrying value.. Our ability to use or lease agricultural lands for agricultural purposes may be limited by government regulation.. Given the large scale of our agricultural landholdings on Maui and Kauai, many of the third parties to whom we lease land for agricultural purposes may be characterized as large scale commercial agricultural operations. Legislation passed on Kauai placed restrictions on the ability of such operations to use land within specified distances of highways, schools, oceans, streams, residences, parks, care homes, hospitals and other similar uses, to grow crops other than ground cover. This legislation also put significant restrictions regarding, and public notification obligations concerning, pesticide use on such operations and limited their ability to use genetically modified organism (GMO) crops. On Maui, similar legislation passed by a voter initiative placed a moratorium on the ability to farm GMO crops. In November 2016, the Kauai and Maui legislation was invalidated by the courts. If additional legislative agricultural restrictions are passed, such as restrictions on the use of pesticides, our ability to use or lease lands for large scale agricultural purposes, and any rents that we can achieve for those lands, may be adversely affected.. The transition to a diversified agricultural model is subject to both the risks affecting the business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing and executing the strategy.. Our ability to transition to a new diversified model and improve the operating results depends upon a number of factors, including:. • the extent to which management has properly understood and is able to manage the dynamics and demands of the various farming operations comprising the diversified agricultural model, in which we may have limited or no prior experience;. • the ability to secure applicable permits and/or licenses from governmental agencies that may be necessary for executing the strategy;. • the ability to respond to any unanticipated changes in expected cash flows, liquidity, cash needs and cash expenditures with respect to the new diversified model, including our ability to obtain any additional financing or other liquidity enhancing transactions, if and when needed;. • the ability to execute strategic initiatives in a cost-effective manner, including identifying business partners to explore potential opportunities; and. 24. • our ability to access adequate, affordable and uninterrupted sources of water (see the \"The lack of water for agricultural irrigation could adversely affect the operations and profitability of the Land Operations segment\" risk factor below).. Commercial agriculture is challenged in Hawaii, as in other U.S. jurisdictions, due to various factors, including high production costs, a shrinking farm labor base, and community opposition to conventional farming techniques, which include the use of legally approved chemical pesticides and fertilizers and the concentrated presence of livestock. These factors could impact our ability to successfully transition to diversified agriculture, and could similarly affect the success of leasehold tenant farmers on our agricultural lands.. There is no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement and execute a new diversified agricultural model, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. The diversified agricultural model may not achieve the financial results expected.. We are currently evaluating several categories of replacement agricultural activities in the transition to the diversified model, including but not limited to energy crops, agroforestry, grass finished livestock operations, diversified food crops/agricultural park, and orchard crops. There is no assurance that our replacement agricultural activities will be economically feasible or improve the Land Operations segment's operating results.. Agricultural land is illiquid and difficult to value.. Even if qualified farm lessees can be identified and engaged in leases, agricultural operations are high risk by nature and turnover can be expected. From a landlord's perspective, agricultural leases produce only modest rents that could imply a valuation of the land that could materially understate other methods of appraising asset value.. Our power sales contracts could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced.. Our power sales contracts expire at various points in the future and may not be replaced or could be replaced on less favorable terms, which could adversely affect Land Operations profitability.. The market for power sales in Hawai`i is limited.. The power distribution systems in Hawai`i are small and island-specific; currently, there is no ability to move power generated on one island to any other island. In addition, Hawai`i law generally limits the ability of independent power producers, such as us, to sell their output to firms other than the respective utilities on each island, without themselves becoming utilities and subject to the State's Public Utilities Commission (PUC) regulation. Further, any sales of electricity by us to the utilities on each island are subject to the approval of the PUC. Unlike some areas in the Mainland, Hawai`i's independent power producers have no ability to use utility infrastructure to transfer power to other locations.. The lack of water for agricultural irrigation could adversely affect the operations and profitability of the Land Operations segment.. It is crucial for our land to have access to sufficient, reliable and affordable sources of water in order to conduct any agricultural activity. On Maui, there are regulatory and legal challenges to our ability to divert water from streams. In addition, access to water is subject to weather patterns that cannot reliably be predicted. If we are limited in our ability to divert stream waters for our use or there is insufficient rainfall on an extended basis, this would have a significant, adverse effect on the utility of the land and our ability to employ the land in active agricultural use.. Governmental entities have adopted or may adopt regulatory requirements related to our dams, reservoirs, and other water infrastructure that may adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to inspections and regulations that apply to certain of our dams, reservoirs, and other water infrastructure. Certain of these facilities have deficiencies noted by the State of Hawaii, which we are working with the regulators to resolve. It is possible that current or future requirements imposed on landowners and dam owners/operators may require that we satisfy additional administrative and regulatory requirements and thereby increase the holding costs to us and/or decrease the operational utility of the subject facilities.. 25. Risks Relating to Our Materials & Construction Segment. Our Materials & Construction segment's revenue growth and profitability are dependent on factors outside of our control.. Our Materials & Construction segment's ability to grow its revenues and improve profitability is dependent on factors outside of our control, which include, but are not limited to:. • decreased government funding for infrastructure projects (see the \"Economic downturns or reductions in government funding of infrastructure projects could reduce our revenues and profits from our materials and construction businesses.\" risk factor below);. • reduced spending by private sector customers resulting from poor economic conditions in Hawai`i;. • an increased number of competitors;. • less success in competitive bidding for contracts;. • a decline in transportation and logistical costs, which may result in customers purchasing material from sources located outside of Hawai`i in a more cost-efficient manner;. • limitations on access to necessary working capital and investment capital to sustain growth; and. • inability to hire and retain essential personnel and to acquire equipment to support growth.. Economic downturns or reductions in government funding of infrastructure projects could reduce our revenues and profits from our materials and construction businesses.. The segment's products are used in public infrastructure projects, which include the construction, maintenance and improvement of highways, streets, roads, airport runways and similar projects. Our materials and construction businesses, including our aggregates business, are highly dependent on the amount and timing of infrastructure work funded by various governmental entities, which, in turn, depends on the overall condition of the economy, the need for new or replacement infrastructure, the priorities placed on various projects funded by governmental entities and federal, state or local government spending levels. We cannot be assured of the existence, amount and timing of appropriations for spending on these and other future projects, including state and federal spending on roads and highways. Spending on infrastructure could decline for numerous reasons, including decreased revenues received by state and local governments for spending on such projects (including federal funding), and other competing priorities for available state, local and federal funds. State spending on highway and other projects can be adversely affected by decreases or delays in, or uncertainties regarding, federal highway funding. The segment is reliant upon contracts with the City and County of Honolulu, the State of Hawai`i and the Federal Government for a significant portion of its revenues. If revenues and profits are impacted by economic downturns or reductions in government funding, the segment's long-lived assets and goodwill may become impaired.. We may face community opposition to the operation or expansion of quarries or other facilities.. Quarries and other segment facilities require special and conditional use permits to operate. Permitting and licensing applications and proceedings and regulatory enforcement proceedings are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. In addition, the Makakilo quarry is adjacent to residential areas and heavy equipment and explosives are used in the mining process. As a result, from time to time, our Materials & Construction segment operations may be subject to community opposition and adverse publicity that may have a negative effect on operations and delay or limit any future expansion or development of segment operations.. Our materials and construction businesses operate only in Hawai`i, and adverse changes to the economy and business environment in Hawai`i could adversely affect operations and profitability.. Because our operations are concentrated in a specific geographic location, our materials and construction businesses are susceptible to fluctuations in operations and profitability caused by changes in economic or other conditions in Hawai`i.. Significant contracts may be canceled or we may be disqualified from bidding for new contracts.. Governmental entities typically have the right to cancel their contracts with our construction businesses at any time with payment generally only for the work already completed plus a negotiated compensatory overhead recovery amount. In addition, our construction businesses could be prohibited from bidding on certain governmental contracts if we fail to maintain qualifications required by those entities, such as maintaining an acceptable safety record.. 26. If our materials and construction businesses are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks, requirements or costs when bidding on or negotiating a contract that we are ultimately awarded, the segment may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on the contract.. The majority of the Materials & Construction segment's revenues are derived from \"quantity pricing\" (fixed unit price) contracts. Approximately 19 percent of 2017 segment revenues and backlog are derived from \"lump sum\" (fixed total price) contracts. Quantity pricing contracts require the provision of line-item materials at a fixed unit price based on approved quantities irrespective of actual per unit costs. Lump sum contracts require that the total amount of work be performed for a single price irrespective of actual quantities or actual costs. Expected profits on contracts are realized only if costs are accurately estimated and then successfully controlled. If cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if the contract is not performed within cost estimates, then cost overruns may result in losses or cause the contract not to be as profitable as expected.. If our materials and construction businesses are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled labor, or encounter labor difficulties, the ability to bid for and successfully complete contracts may be negatively impacted.. The ability to attract and retain reliable, qualified personnel is a significant factor that enables our materials and construction businesses to successfully bid for and profitably complete their work. This includes members of management, project managers, estimators, supervisors, and foremen. The segment's future success also will depend on its ability to hire, train and retain, or to attract, when needed, highly skilled management personnel. If competition for these employees is intense, it could be difficult to hire and retain the personnel necessary to support operations. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting, developing and retaining new highly skilled employees, segment operations and future earnings may be negatively impacted.. A majority of segment personnel are unionized. Any work stoppage or other labor dispute involving unionized workforce, or inability to renew contracts with the unions, could have an adverse effect on operations.. Our construction and construction-related businesses may fail to meet schedule or performance requirements of our paving contracts.. Asphalt paving contracts have penalties for late completion. In most instances, projects must be completed within an allotted number of business or calendar days from the time the notice to proceed is received, subject to allowances for additional days due to weather delays or additional work requested by the customer. If our construction businesses subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, we may be responsible for contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages, an amount assessed per day beyond the contractually allotted days, at the discretion of the customer. Under these circumstances, the total project cost could exceed original estimates and could result in a loss of profit or a loss on the project. Additionally, our construction businesses enter into lump sum and quantity pricing contracts where profits can be adversely affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which can cause actual costs to materially exceed the costs estimated at the time of our original bid.. Timing of the award and performance of new contracts could have an adverse effect on Materials & Construction segment operating results and cash flow.. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when bids for new projects will be offered for tender, as these projects frequently involve a lengthy and complex design and bidding process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, funding arrangements and governmental approvals. Because of these factors, segment results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and the fluctuation may be substantial.. The uncertainty of the timing of contract awards after a winning bid is submitted may also present difficulties in matching the size of equipment fleet and work crews with contract needs. In some cases, our materials and construction businesses may maintain and bear the cost of more equipment than is currently required, in anticipation of future needs for existing contracts or expected future contracts.. In addition, the timing of the revenues, earnings and cash flows from contracts can be delayed by a number of factors, including delays in receiving material and equipment from suppliers and services from subcontractors and changes in the scope of work to be performed.. 27. Dependence on a limited number of customers could adversely affect our materials and construction businesses and results of operations.. Due to the size and nature of the segment's construction contracts, one or a few customers have in the past and may in the future represent a substantial portion of consolidated segment revenues and gross profits in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, in 2017, approximately 86 percent of Grace's construction related revenue was generated from projects administered by the federal government, State of Hawai`i, or the various counties in Hawai`i where Grace served as general contractor or subcontractor. Similarly, segment backlog frequently reflects multiple contracts for certain customers; therefore, one customer may comprise a significant percentage of backlog at a certain point in time. For example, the State of Hawai`i comprised approximately 56 percent of Grace's construction backlog at December 31, 2017. The loss of business from any such customer, or a default or delay in payment on a significant scale by a customer, could have an adverse effect on our materials and construction businesses or results of operations.. Our materials and construction businesses are likely to require more capital over the longer term.. The property and machinery needed to produce aggregate products and perform asphaltic concrete paving contracts are expensive. Although capital needs over the next five years are expected to be relatively modest, over the longer term, our materials and construction businesses may require increasing annual capital expenditures. The segment's ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund these expenditures depends on future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting operations, many of which are beyond our control. If the segment is unable to generate sufficient cash to operate its business, it may be required, among other things, to further reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the aggregate dollar amount of contracts that our materials and construction businesses are able to pursue.. As is customary in the construction industry, we may be required to provide surety bonds to our customers to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Events that adversely affect the insurance and bonding markets generally may result in bonding becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. The inability to obtain adequate bonding would limit the amount that our construction businesses are to able bid on new contracts and could have an adverse effect on the segment's future revenues and business prospects.. Our Materials & Construction segment operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance.. Segment employees are subject to the usual hazards associated with performing construction activities on road construction sites, plants and quarries. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain general liability and excess liability insurance, workers' compensation insurance, auto insurance and other types of insurance, all in amounts consistent with our materials and construction businesses' risk of loss and industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities incurred in operations.. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of the segment's safety program. If insurance claims or costs were above our estimates, our materials and construction businesses might be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims, which could impact their ability to maintain or expand their operations.. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our materials and construction businesses' ability to conduct business and could require significant expenditures.. Segment operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, climate change and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air and water. Our materials and construction businesses could be held liable for such contamination created not only from their own activities but also from the historical activities of others on properties that the segment acquires or leases. Segment operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other. 28. things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties, cleanup costs, third-party property damage or personal injury claims. In addition, these laws and regulations have become, and enforcement practices and compliance standards are becoming, increasingly stringent. Moreover, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, with respect to products or activities to which they have not been previously applied. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies, could require substantial expenditures for, among other things, equipment not currently possessed, or the acquisition or modification of permits applicable to segment activities.. Short supplies and volatility in the costs of fuel, energy and raw materials may adversely affect our materials and construction businesses.. Our materials and construction businesses require a continued supply of diesel fuel, electricity and other energy sources for production and transportation. The financial results of these businesses have at times been affected by the high costs of these energy sources. Significant increases in costs or reduced availability of these energy sources have and may in the future reduce financial results. Moreover, fluctuations in the supply and costs of these energy sources can make planning business operations more difficult. We do not hedge our fuel price risk, but instead focus on volume-related price reductions, fuel efficiency, alternative fuel sources, consumption and the natural hedge created by the ability to increase aggregates prices.. Similarly, segment operations also require a continued supply of liquid asphalt, which serves as a key raw material in the production of asphaltic concrete. Liquid asphalt is subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations, which are generally correlated to the price of crude oil, though not as closely as diesel or gasoline, and are beyond the control of our materials and construction business. Accordingly, significant increases in the price of crude oil will have an adverse impact on the financial results of the Materials & Construction segment due to higher costs of production of asphaltic concrete. Conversely, significant declines in the price of oil had, and in the future, may have an adverse impact on our material and construction sales of liquid asphalt concrete, due to lower costs of importing asphalt to Hawai`i, which may result in customers sourcing liquid asphalt from competition located outside of Hawai`i."
