[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this report, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INCLUDING OUR DEPENDENCE ON ILUVIEN. We depend on the commercial success of our only product, ILUVIEN, which in the near term will depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN on our own in the countries where we sell direct, and on our distributors' ability to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in other countries.. We are a pharmaceutical company with only one product available for commercial sale in a limited number of markets. Because we do not currently have any products or product candidates available for sale or in clinical development other than ILUVIEN, our future success depends on our and our distributors' successful commercialization of ILUVIEN. We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in 2013 and in the U.S. and Portugal in 2015. We began selling ILUVIEN in Austria and Ireland in 2017. Our distributors in Italy and Spain generated revenues for us in 2017 through sales of ILUVIEN, as did our distributor in the Middle East. We expect that our distributor in France will launch ILUVIEN in that country in 2018, although the timing and success of the commercial launch of ILUVIEN in any new country depends on each specific pricing and reimbursement timeline established by the applicable regulatory authority in that country.. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses and to use a substantial portion of our cash resources:. • to continue to support our sales efforts in the U.S., Germany, Portugal and the United Kingdom,. • to pursue the approval of and reimbursement for ILUVIEN in other countries and. • to grow our operational capabilities.. These investments represent a significant investment in the commercial and regulatory success of ILUVIEN, which is uncertain.. If we or our distributors do not successfully increase our sales in countries where we are approved to sell ILUVIEN or our distributors do not successfully commence and grow our sales of ILUVIEN in other countries where we are seeking to begin selling ILUVIEN, our business may be seriously harmed. We and our distributors may not be able to commercialize ILUVIEN successfully, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In the near term, we may experience delays and unforeseen difficulties in the commercialization of ILUVIEN, including unfavorable pricing or reimbursement levels in certain countries that could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues.. We rely on a single manufacturer for ILUVIEN, a single manufacturer for the ILUVIEN applicator and a single manufacturer for ILUVIEN's active pharmaceutical ingredient. Our business would be seriously harmed if any of these third parties are unable to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available.. We do not have, nor do we currently intend to establish, in-house manufacturing capability. We depend entirely on, and have agreements with, a single third-party manufacturer for each of:. • the manufacture of the ILUVIEN implant (Alliance Medical Products, Inc., a Siegfried Company (Alliance)),. • the manufacture of the ILUVIEN applicator (FlexMedical or an affiliate of Flextronics International, Ltd. (Flextronics)),. • the manufacture of ILUVIEN's active pharmaceutical ingredient (FARMABIOS SpA./Byron Chemical Company Inc. (FARMABIOS)) and. • the quality release testing of ILUVIEN in the European Economic Area (EEA) (AndersonBrecon Limited trading as Packaging Coordinators, Inc. (PCI)).. 17. Table of Contents. If any of the third-party manufacturers (a) breach their agreements, (b) are unable to meet their contractual or quality requirements or (c) become unwilling to perform for any reason, we may be unable, or may be unable in a timely manner, to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers, enter into favorable agreements with them and ensure that they are approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Further, all of our manufacturers rely on additional third parties for the manufacture of component parts. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of ILUVIEN implants, the ILUVIEN applicator or the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a timely manner from these third parties could delay commercial production of ILUVIEN and adversely affect our ability to fulfill demand for ILUVIEN, which could in turn adversely affect our revenue, operations and cash flow.. The manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products such as ILUVIEN are subject to the requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to satisfy these requirements, our product development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed.. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies regulate the manufacture and packaging of pharmaceutical products such as ILUVIEN, which must be conducted in accordance with the FDA's cGMP and comparable requirements of foreign regulatory agencies. Only a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these cGMP regulations are both capable of manufacturing ILUVIEN and willing to do so. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulations, requirements or guidelines, the regulatory agencies could refuse to grant marketing approval of ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates and could impose sanctions on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Failure of our manufacturers to maintain compliance could interrupt the production of ILUVIEN, resulting in delays and additional costs that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any significant delays in the manufacture of ILUVIEN or issues with the quality of the product could materially harm our business and prospects.. Changes in certain aspects of the manufacturing process or procedure require prior FDA review or approval of the manufacturing process and procedures in accordance with the FDA's cGMP regulations. There are comparable foreign requirements as well. This review may be costly and time consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. If we elect to manufacture products at another facility, we would need to ensure that the new facility and the manufacturing process comply with cGMP and comparable foreign regulations. Any such new facility would also be subject to inspection. In addition, we would be required to demonstrate by physical and chemical methods, which are costly and time consuming, that the product made at any new facility is equivalent to the product made at the former facility. The FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may require clinical testing to prove equivalency of the product manufactured at any new facility compared to the old facility, which would result in additional costs and delay.. Further, we are required to complete testing on both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and on the finished product in the packaging that we propose for commercial sales. This includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. In addition, our manufacturers are required to consistently produce our product in commercial quantities and of specified quality in a reproducible manner and document their ability to do so. This requirement is referred to as process validation. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements, for the manufacture, packaging, or testing of products at any time.. Materials necessary to manufacture ILUVIEN may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase materials from third-party suppliers necessary to produce ILUVIEN. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers when needed or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of our manufacturers' acquisition of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials in sufficient amounts, our sales of ILUVIEN would be hampered or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate the revenues from the sale of ILUVIEN that we expect. Moreover, although we have entered into agreements for the commercial production of the ILUVIEN implant, the commercial production of the ILUVIEN applicator and the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN, the suppliers may be unable to meet their contractual or quality requirements or choose not to supply us in a timely manner or in the minimum guaranteed quantities. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these essential supplies, their ability to manufacture ILUVIEN and thus our supply of ILUVIEN for sale would be delayed, which could significantly reduce our sales of ILUVIEN.. The terms of our Loan and Security Agreement require us to meet certain operating covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility.. Our $40.0 million Loan and Security Agreement (2018 Loan Agreement) with Solar Capital Ltd. (Solar Capital) contains certain operating covenants and restricts our operating and financial flexibility. The 2018 Loan Agreement is secured by a lien covering all of our U.S. assets (and certain ownership interests in one of our foreign subsidiaries), other than our intellectual. 18. Table of Contents. property. The 2018 Loan Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. Affirmative covenants include covenants requiring us to comply with applicable laws, maintain our legal existence, deliver certain financial reports and maintain insurance coverage. Negative covenants restrict our ability to transfer any part of our business or property, to change our business or key management, to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in mergers or acquisitions, to pay dividends or make other distributions, to make investments, to create other liens on our assets and to allow revenues from the sale of ILUVIEN to fall below certain minimums, in each case subject to customary exceptions.. If an event of default under our 2018 Loan Agreement occurs, Solar Capital may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to raise additional financing, renegotiate the 2018 Loan Agreement on terms less favorable to us or immediately cease operations. Any declaration by Solar Capital of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly after we publicly disclose that event in an SEC filing. Further, if we are liquidated, Solar Capital's right to repayment would be senior to the rights of our stockholders.. Our existing cash may be inadequate to fund our operations and support our growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $24.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. Whether this amount will be sufficient to fund our operations and support our growth will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, and we may need monies to fund our operations and support our growth sooner than we might anticipate. These factors include:. • the level of success of the commercialization of ILUVIEN in the U.S., Germany, the United Kingdom and Portugal and any other countries where we sell ILUVIEN directly,. • expenses relating to the commercialization of ILUVIEN;. • our research, development and general and administrative expenses;. • the level of success of the commercialization of ILUVIEN by our distributors in Italy, Spain the Middle East;. • the timing of approvals, if any, of ILUVIEN for additional indications or in additional jurisdictions;. • the extent to which we enter into, maintain and derive revenues from licensing agreements, including agreements to out-license ILUVIEN, research and other collaborations, joint ventures and other business arrangements;. • the extent to which we acquire, and our success in integrating, technologies or companies;. • regulatory changes and technological developments in our markets; and. • the extent to which we can manage the use of cash in our business operations.. If we need additional capital to fund our operations and support our growth and we are unable to obtain that capital as noted below, our business may suffer.. If we seek to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms, the terms on which we obtain the capital may restrict our operations and if the capital we raise is equity or a debt security that is convertible into equity, our stockholders' investment could be diluted.. For the reasons described above, we may need to raise alternative or additional financing to fund our operations and support growth. General market conditions or the market price of our common stock may not support capital-raising transactions such as an additional public or private offering of our common stock or other securities. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may depend on our stock being quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market or upon obtaining stockholder approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the criteria for continued listing on Nasdaq or that we will be able to obtain stockholder approval if it is necessary. If we need additional financing, we may seek to fund our operations through the sale of equity securities, additional debt financing and strategic collaboration agreements. We cannot be sure that additional financing from any of these sources will be available when needed or that, if available, the additional financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds by selling shares of our capital stock, the ownership interest of our current stockholders will be diluted. If we attempt to raise additional funds through strategic collaboration agreements, we may not be successful in obtaining collaboration agreements, or in receiving milestone or royalty payments under those agreements. If we raise additional funds by incurring additional debt (assuming Solar Capital would permit such debt, which would be subordinated to the debt outstanding under our 2018 Loan Agreement), the terms of the debt may include significant installment payments as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates or otherwise successfully operate our business.. 19. Table of Contents. ILUVIEN and any future products or product candidates may not be commercially viable if in the U.S. we fail to obtain or maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products from any of the following: private insurers, the Medicare and Medicaid programs or other third-party payers.. Our revenue from sales of ILUVIEN in the U.S. depends on our ability to maintain pricing and reimbursement guidelines at our desired levels. Those guidelines, however, may fall well below our current expectations. The same could also occur for any future products or product candidates we may develop that receive approval, if any.. Our list pricing in the U.S. for ILUVIEN is based upon the burden of diabetic macular edema (DME), the current pricing of approved therapies for DME, our perception of the overall cost to benefit ratio of ILUVIEN and the current pricing of other therapies. Due to numerous factors beyond our control, including efforts to provide for containment of health care costs, the U.S. may not support our current level of governmental pricing and reimbursement for ILUVIEN, which would reduce our anticipated revenue from ILUVIEN.. In the U.S., the Medicare and Medicaid programs currently provide reimbursement for ILUVEN, but the reimbursement amount for ILUVIEN could be modified in the future, and the types of patients for whom ILUVIEN is reimbursed could be reduced to a smaller subset of patients. In addition, in some states, Medicare reimburses physicians for less than the cost of ILUVIEN. In recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the Medicare program. Comprehensive reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, Medicare reimbursement. The current presidential administration and Congress have indicated they may further reform the Medicare program and the U.S. healthcare system, but have not made any definitive proposals that allow us to gauge the impact of such potential reforms, if any, on our business and operations. Some of these changes and proposed changes and reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for ILUVIEN and our future product candidates, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. Our business could also be adversely affected if retinal specialists are not reimbursed for the cost of the procedure in which they administer ILUVIEN at a level that is satisfactory to them. Limitations on coverage could also be imposed at the local Medicare carrier level or by fiscal intermediaries. Our business could be materially adversely affected if the Medicare program, local Medicare carriers or fiscal intermediaries were to make such a determination and deny or limit the reimbursement of ILUVIEN. If the local contractors that administer the Medicare program are slow to reimburse retinal specialists for ILUVIEN, which could ultimately affect the timing of payments to us, which would adversely affect our working capital requirements.. In the U.S., almost all private insurers, including managed care organizations, have agreed to reimburse for ILUVIEN, but the reimbursement amount could be modified in the future, and the types of patients for whom ILUVIEN is reimbursed could be reduced to a smaller subset of patients. We expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of ILUVIEN in determining whether to maintain approval for reimbursement for ILUVIEN in the U.S. and at what level. Maintaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not maintain approval for reimbursement of ILUVIEN from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis or such approvals are changed to reduce the level of reimbursements.. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of ILUVIEN due to the potential healthcare reforms discussed above, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations, additional legislative proposals and the economic health of the U.S. economy. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable, limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed.. ILUVIEN and any future products or product candidates may not be commercially viable in the EEA if we fail to obtain or maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products from any of the following: governments, private insurers or other third-party payers.. In the EEA, each country has a different reviewing body that evaluates reimbursement dossiers submitted by marketing authorization holders of new drugs and then makes recommendations as to whether or not the drug should be reimbursed. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval. For example, in February 2017 we announced that the Italian government had published a change in the reimbursement status of ILUVIEN, allowing ILUVIEN to be hospital-administered and that ILUVIEN should be fully reimbursed for pseudophakic patients (persons who have had an artificial lens implanted after the natural eye lens has been removed). The negotiation for this reimbursement change took more than 15 months. In some countries, to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval at a level that we believe is appropriate, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of ILUVIEN to other available therapies. Limitations on reimbursement could be imposed at the national, regional or local level or by fiscal intermediaries in each country, either through the initial authorization process or at some point in the future. For example, in November 2016 we began a review process with The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the United Kingdom. This review. 20. Table of Contents. could result in beneficial or detrimental changes to the limitations on the use of ILUVIEN in England and Wales. Our business could be materially adversely affected if NICE imposes those limitations.. In addition, due to price referencing within the EEA and certain other countries, existing pricing in our current markets could be negatively affected by a change in pricing in a country where we currently have reimbursement or by a new price in a country where we obtain reimbursement in the future. For example, if we were to obtain pricing in France that is lower than our current established price in Portugal, the Portuguese government may choose to revisit the current level of reimbursement. This could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business could also be adversely affected if governments, private insurers or other reimbursing bodies or payers (a) limit the indications for reimbursement to a smaller subset than we believe ILUVIEN is effective in treating or (b) establish a limit on the frequency with which ILUVIEN may be administered that is less often than we believe would be effective. (An \"indication\" is a condition that makes a particular treatment or procedure advisable.) Those actions could limit our revenues and harm our business.. Failure to comply with government regulations regarding the sale and marketing of our products could harm our business.. Our and our distribution partners' activities, including the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight, including regulation under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes, along with requirements in Europe, such as the Medicines Act of 1968 in the United Kingdom In the U.S., we are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal False Claims Act and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to purchase or arrange for or recommend the purchase of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws may apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of drugs by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of drugs. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance that can be substantial, including the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Federal False Claim Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act and other violations in connection with off-label promotion of products and Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement and claims under state laws, including state anti-kickback and fraud laws. In Europe, each country has different regulations that govern the promotional claims and activities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The violation and enforcement of these regulations by each country may result in heavy fines, further legal action, public reprimand, injunction and may include the loss of market authorization.. While we have implemented a compliance program to assist with monitoring and complying with these activities and we strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices are ever evolving. If any such actions are instituted against us or our partners and we or they are not successful in defending those actions or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant and material adverse effect on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The United Kingdom's vote to leave the EU, or \"Brexit,\" could have a material adverse effect on us.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the EU (Brexit). After the referendum, the United Kingdom set the Brexit date as March 29, 2019. This result has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for years. Our business in the United Kingdom, the EU and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the United Kingdom's referendum decision. There are many ways in which our business could be affected, only some of which we can identify.. We currently operate in Europe through a subsidiary based in the United Kingdom, which currently provides us with certain operational and other benefits. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the EU could adversely affect our ability to realize those benefits, and we may incur costs and suffer disruptions in our European operations as a result, including changing our base of operations or part of our operations from the United Kingdom to another country in the EU.. For example, our reference member state for our marketing authorization in the EEA for ILUVIEN is the United Kingdom's Medicines and Healthcare Regulatory Agency (MHRA). Because of Brexit, we will likely need to select a new reference member state for the EU, which will require filing and receiving acceptance from such member state to make such change. A change in. 21. Table of Contents. our reference member state may require us to modify our marketing authorization in the 17 countries in the EEA where we currently have market authorization for ILUVIEN. In addition, the quality release testing of ILUVIEN for the EEA occurs in the United Kingdom. It is likely that due to Brexit, we will need to establish a quality release-testing site for ILUVIEN in a different location in the EEA. In addition to the cost and risk of establishing a new testing site, this change will also require a modification to our marketing authorization in the 17 countries where we have a license. Any delay in the acceptance by governmental authorities of these modifications, or any other changes to our marketing authorizations or how we conduct business caused by Brexit may disrupt our operations or limit our ability to sell ILUVIEN in the EEA for a period of time, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. In addition, Brexit may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. Our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the United Kingdom and other countries, including the U.S., and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the United Kingdom. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the United Kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the EU, may adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. If we fail to successfully manage our international operations, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer.. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are many risks inherent in international business activities, including:. • extended collection timelines for accounts receivable and greater working capital requirements;. • multiple legal systems and unexpected changes in legal requirements;. • tariffs, export restrictions, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets;. • trade laws and business practices favoring local competition;. • potential tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, multiple and conflicting and complex tax laws and regulations;. • weaker intellectual property protection in some countries;. • political instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism; and. • adverse economic conditions, including the stability and solvency of business financial markets, financial institutions and sovereign nations.. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition.. Maintaining our commercial infrastructure is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources, and we may not be successful in our efforts or we may experience difficulties with these efforts. We may also encounter unexpected or unforeseen challenges, which may negatively affect our commercial efforts for ILUVIEN.. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend almost entirely on our ability to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN on our own in the U.S., Germany, the United Kingdom and Portugal, and to a lesser extent, in Ireland and Austria. We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in 2013, and in the U.S. and Portugal in 2015. We launched ILUVIEN in Ireland and Austria in 2017. A commercial launch of this size is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources. We anticipate that our distributors in Italy, the Middle East, Spain and France will generate some revenues for us in 2018, if they are able to continue to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in those territories, but the amount of that revenue will be minimal compared to the revenue generated in geographic locations where we sell ILUVIEN directly.. 22. Table of Contents. As of December 31, 2017, we had 126 employees, 81 of whom were located in the U.S. and 45 of whom were located in the United Kingdom, Germany and Portugal. As of December 31, 2017, our commercial U.S. organization included 43 employees. As our commercialization plans and strategies evolve beyond our initial planned EEA launches, we will need to further expand the size of our organization by recruiting additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other personnel.. We may not be able to maintain and expand our commercial operation in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on this investment. In addition, we have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products include:. • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective personnel;. • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of ophthalmologists to prescribe our products;. • the lack of complementary products or additional labeled indications for ILUVIEN to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines;. • our inability to obtain sufficient levels of pricing and reimbursement in each jurisdiction; and. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a commercial organization.. If we are not successful in recruiting and retaining sales and marketing personnel or in maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure or if we do not successfully enter into additional collaboration arrangements with third parties, we will have difficulty commercializing ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may not be successful in maintaining and expanding our commercial operations for numerous reasons, including the failure to attract, retain and motivate the necessary skilled personnel and failing to develop a successful marketing strategy. Failure to maintain and expand our commercial operations will have a negative outcome on our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN and generate revenue.. Additionally, we may encounter unexpected or unforeseen delays in expanding our commercial operations that delay the commercial launch in one or more countries in which ILUVIEN has received or been recommended for marketing authorization. These delays may increase the cost of and the resources required for successful commercialization of ILUVIEN. We do not have experience in a commercial operation of this size. Further, a delay in the commercial launch of ILUVIEN could result in the withdrawal of our marketing or regulatory authorization for ILUVIEN in certain jurisdictions, including certain EU member states where ILUVIEN has already received marketing authorization.. In addition, there are many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, government agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products, some of which may target the same indications as ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates. Our competitors include larger, more established, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that have substantially greater capital resources, existing competitive products, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do.. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for ILUVIEN for the Non-Infectious Posterior Uveitis (NIPU) Indication in the EEA, or if we do obtain regulatory approval, we may not be able to meet any post-marketing requirements for such approval; if we fail to obtain that approval or do not meet any requirements, our operations could be negatively affected.. On December 12, 2017, we filed a Type II Variation of ILUVIEN through the Mutual Recognition Procedure with the MHRA in the United Kingdom as the reference member state. The submission to the MHRA and the appropriate bodies of the sixteen European states seeks to add to the ILUVIEN label in these countries the indication of recurrent and persistent non-infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment. All seventeen bodies have accepted the submission. Although we believe that the uveitis clinical trials demonstrated the benefits of ILUVIEN for NIPU, the regulatory agencies may not agree, and they may not approve the use of ILUVIEN for NIPU. In addition, if we receive approval of ILUVIEN for NIPU, it is likely that we will be required to conduct certain post-market activities to maintain the approval. These required activities could include a post-market safety or efficacy study of ILUVIEN for NIPU in pediatric patients and the general population. Implementing and maintaining these studies could be costly. If we are unable to meet any requirements, we could lose our approval. If we do not receive approval for NIPU for ILUVIEN in these countries, if the approval process is delayed significantly, or if we are unable to meet any post-market requirements, we could face adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our reputation and our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we gain approval for NIPU but it is subsequently revoked and we are required to remove ILUVIEN for NIPU from the EEA market, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. The regulatory approval of ILUVIEN in any additional countries is uncertain, and our regulatory approval in certain countries is contingent on our ability to sell ILUVIEN in an appropriate time frame. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions or maintain regulatory approval in jurisdictions where we have received regulatory approval but have not yet sold ILUVIEN would prevent us from marketing and commercializing ILUVIEN in additional markets, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization in the U.S. and in the following countries of the EEA: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom We have launched ILUVIEN in the U.S., Germany, the United Kingdom, Portugal, Ireland and Austria. Our distributor will sell ILUVIEN in Italy and Spain in 2018. When we received marketing authorization in the remaining countries in the EEA, those marketing authorizations required that we sell at least one ILUVIEN in those countries within three years or our license in those countries could be revoked unless we negotiate to extend the deadline. We intend to either sell one ILUVIEN in each of those countries or negotiate to extend the deadline, but we may not be able to make such a sale or extend the deadline, in which case our license in that country could be revoked. If our license in any of these countries is revoked, we will need to pursue marketing authorization again for that country, and we may be unsuccessful in that effort. The withdrawal of an approval could harm our business materially.. We intend to continue to pursue market authorizations for ILUVIEN internationally in additional jurisdictions. To market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we will be required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize ILUVIEN in any additional market.. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances in jurisdictions where ILUVIEN is not approved will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense incurred, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of preclinical and clinical tests that will be required for regulatory approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition for which the drug candidate is in development, the jurisdiction in which we are seeking approval and the regulations applicable to that particular drug candidate. Regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including that:. • regulatory agencies may interpret data from preclinical and clinical testing in different ways than we do;. • regulatory agencies may not approve of our manufacturing processes;. • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective;. • regulatory agencies may conclude that the drug candidate does not meet quality standards for stability, quality, purity and potency; and. • regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations.. The applicable regulatory authorities may make requests or suggestions regarding our clinical trials, resulting in an increased risk of difficulties or delays in obtaining regulatory approval. For example, the regulatory authorities may not approve of certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data, including how we evaluate the relationship between risk and benefit. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain additional foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA.. Even if we do receive additional regulatory approvals for ILUVIEN, regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which ILUVIEN may be marketed, which would be adverse to our business.. Regulatory agencies generally approve products for particular indications, or the conditions that make a particular treatment or procedure advisable. If a regulatory agency approves ILUVIEN for a limited indication, the size of our potential market for ILUVIEN will be reduced. ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies. In the U.S., the indication for ILUVIEN is different, as ILUVIEN is indicated for the treatment of DME in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure (IOP). Either of these indications or future indications may limit the use of ILUVIEN to a narrower segment of the DME population than we believe is warranted. As a result, our potential revenues are now and may be in the future less that they would be with broader indications for ILUVIEN.. 24. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are material to our business.. Our licenses are material to our business, and we may enter into additional licenses in the future. We hold a license from pSivida to intellectual property relating to ILUVIEN. Our ability to pursue the development and commercialization of ILUVIEN depends upon the continuation of our license from pSivida. This license imposes various commercialization, milestone payment, royalty payments, insurance and other obligations on us, including the right by pSivida to audit. If we fail to comply with these obligations, pSivida may have the right to terminate the license. Our license rights to pSivida's proprietary insert technology could revert to pSivida if we:. (a) fail twice to cure our breach of an obligation to make certain payments to pSivida following receipt of written notice of the breach;. (b) fail to cure other breaches of material terms of our agreement with pSivida within 30 days after notice of such breaches or such longer period (up to 90 days) as may be reasonably necessary if the breach cannot be cured within such 30-day period;. (c) file for protection under the bankruptcy laws, make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, appoint or suffer appointment of a receiver or trustee over our property, file a petition under any bankruptcy or insolvency act or have any such petition filed against us and such proceeding remains undismissed or unstayed for a period of more than 60 days; or. (d) notify pSivida in writing of our decision to abandon our license with respect to a certain product using pSivida's proprietary delivery device.. If our license with pSivida, or any other current or future material license agreement, were terminated, we would be unable to market the applicable products, such as ILUVIEN, that may be covered by such license, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects.. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the regulatory authorities to those specific indications for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated.. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the applicable regulatory authorities, including the FDA in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities in Europe. In addition to approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for any desired future indications for our products, including NIPU for ILUVIEN in the EEA, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected.. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by regulatory authority. These \"off-label\" uses by physicians are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for some patients in some circumstances. Regulatory authorities generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do restrict, however, communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow regulatory authority rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the regulatory authority to suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market in the applicable country, require a recall or payment of fines, or impose sanctions that could include disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business.. pSivida has filed for regulatory approval in the U.S. for a drug to treat uveitis with fluocinolone acetonide (FAc), the active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN. pSivida's drug also uses the same insert technology as ILUVIEN, but with their own inserter. If pSivida or another party that licenses the technology from pSivida obtains regulatory approval and subsequently commercializes this drug, our business may suffer.. Our license agreement with pSivida permits pSivida to develop a drug to treat posterior segment uveitis using the technology of the polyimide insert, but not the ILUVIEN inserter. pSivida has conducted clinical trials with such a drug for the treatment of NIPU and has filed a New Drug Application with the FDA in the first quarter of 2018 for this drug (Uveitis Drug). If pSivida receives approval for the Uveitis Drug and they or another party commercializes the Uveitis Drug in the U.S., similarities of the Uveitis Drug to ILUVIEN may create confusion in the market place. In addition, pSivida may seek or receive pricing or reimbursement that is lower than ILUVIEN, which could ultimately result in lower reimbursement levels for ILUVIEN. This. 25. Table of Contents. potential market place confusion or any impact to our reimbursement for ILUVIEN could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and operations.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive, and the commercial success of ILUVIEN or any of our future products or product candidates will depend on several factors, including our ability to differentiate ILUVIEN or any of our future products or product candidates from our competitors' current or future products. We will face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide with respect to ILUVIEN and to any future products or product candidates that we may develop or commercialize in the future.. Our commercial opportunities for ILUVIEN will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or market products that:. • are more effective;. • receive better reimbursement terms;. • are more accepted by physicians;. • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects;. • are better tolerated;. • are more adaptable to various modes of dosing;. • have better distribution channels;. • are easier to administer; or. • are less expensive, including a generic version of ILUVIEN.. We believe that ILUVIEN competes with other products that have been or are being developed for the treatment of DME. Currently, DME is treated with biological anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents, corticosteroids and laser photocoagulation.. Three biological anti-VEGF agents are used to treat DME:. Lucentis is currently approved for the treatment of DME, the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, the treatment of neovascular wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and the treatment of macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO) in the U.S. In the EEA, the approval does not include diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Lucentis is marketed in the U.S. by Genentech and in the EEA by Novartis.. Eylea is currently approved for the treatment of DME, the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, the treatment of neovascular wet AMD and the treatment of macular edema following RVO in the U.S. In the EEA, the approval does not include diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Eylea is marketed in the U.S. by Regeneron and in the EEA by Bayer.. Avastin, an oncology product marketed by the Roche Group, is used off label by retinal specialists in both the U.S. and in certain countries of the EEA in the treatment of numerous retinal diseases, including DME, but is not formulated or approved for any ophthalmic use.. Two other drugs that are not biological anti-VEGF agents are also used to treat DME:. Ozurdex, which is within the corticosteroid class, is currently approved in the U.S. for the treatment of DME and in the EEA for visual impairment due to DME in patients who are pseudophakic or who are considered insufficiently responsive to, or are unsuitable for, non-corticosteroid therapy. Ozurdex is also indicated for macular edema resulting from RVO and for uveitis in the U.S. and the EEA. Ozurdex is marketed in the U.S. and EEA by Allergan.. Intravitreal triamcinolone is used by some physicians for the treatment of DME although it is not approved for DME.. In addition, retinal specialists are currently using laser photocoagulation to treat DME, and may continue to use these therapies in competition with ILUVIEN. Other laser, surgical or pharmaceutical treatments for DME may also compete against ILUVIEN. These competitive therapies may result in pricing pressure, even if ILUVIEN is otherwise viewed as a preferable therapy.. 26. Table of Contents. The active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN is FAc, which is not patent protected. As a result, our competitors could develop an alternative formulation or delivery mechanisms to treat diseases of the eye with FAc. We do not have the right to develop and sell pSivida's proprietary insert technology for indications for diseases outside of the eye anywhere in the world, or for the treatment of uveitis outside of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, which pSivida retained. Further, our agreement with pSivida permits pSivida to grant to any other party the right to use its intellectual property (a) to treat DME through an incision smaller than that required for a 25-gauge needle, unless using a corticosteroid delivered to the back of the eye, (b) to deliver any compound outside the back of the eye unless it is to treat DME through an incision required for a 25-gauge or larger needle, or (c) to deliver non-corticosteroids to the back of the eye, unless it is to treat DME through an incision required for a 25-gauge or larger needle.. Many pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, public and private universities, government agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of products, some of which may target the same indications as ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates. Our competitors include larger, more established, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that have substantially greater capital resources, existing competitive products, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do.. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our portfolio of ophthalmic products.. In the future, we may choose to commercialize a portfolio of new ophthalmic drugs in addition to ILUVIEN. We may seek to do so through our internal research programs and through licensing or otherwise acquiring the rights to potential new products and future product candidates for the treatment of ophthalmic disease.. A significant portion of the research that we may choose to conduct may involve new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Any future research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential products or product candidates, yet fail to yield products or product candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including:. • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential products or product candidates; or. • we may learn after further study that potential products or product candidates have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective drugs.. We may be unable to license or acquire suitable products or product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area. Several more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the ophthalmic field. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable products or product candidates include the following:. • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from the product;. • we may need to obtain our lender's consent to any significant payment or potential payment in conjunction with a license of acquisition of technology;. • companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; or. • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise.. Additionally, it may take greater human and financial resources to develop suitable potential products or product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights than we will possess, thereby limiting our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio.. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs or by obtaining rights to novel therapeutics from third parties, our business may suffer.. 27. Table of Contents. We may acquire additional businesses or form strategic alliances in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of those acquisitions or alliances.. We may acquire additional businesses or products, form strategic alliances or create joint ventures with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our existing business, including adding new products in the ophthalmic field. If we acquire businesses with promising markets or ophthalmic products, we may be unable to realize the benefit of acquiring those businesses if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the ophthalmic products of a newly acquired company that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines to realize value from expected synergies. We cannot assure that, following an acquisition, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies the acquisition.. If we lose key management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to identify, develop and commercialize ILUVIEN and any future products or product candidates.. We depend on the principal members of our management team, including C. Daniel Myers, our Chief Executive Officer, Richard Eiswirth, our President and Chief Financial Officer, Philip Ashman, Ph.D., our EEA Senior Vice President and EEA Managing Director, Dave Holland, our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Kenneth Green, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer and Global Head of Research and Development. These executives have significant ophthalmic, regulatory industry, sales and marketing, operational and/or corporate finance experience. The loss of any such executives or any other principal member of our management team may impair our ability to identify, develop and market ILUVIEN and any future ophthalmic products or product candidates.. In addition, our growth will require us to hire a significant number of qualified technical, commercial and administrative personnel. We face intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for the qualified personnel we need in our business. If we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain or grow our operations.. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and may continue to incur substantial and increasing losses.. We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in 2013, and in the U.S. and Portugal in 2015. We are not currently generating enough revenues to cover our current expenses or our anticipated future expenses. ILUVIEN is our only product currently approved for commercial sale. As a result of these factors, we are uncertain when or if we will achieve profitability and, if so, whether we will be able to sustain it. As of December 31, 2017, we had accumulated a deficit of $399.1 million. Our ability to generate significant revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability to successfully market and sell ILUVIEN and expand the geographic areas where we or our distributors can sell ILUVIEN, and to complete the development of and obtain necessary regulatory approvals for future ophthalmic products or product candidates. Although we believe we may be cash flow positive in late 2018, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable, or cash flow positive, even if we successfully commercialize ILUVIEN or future products or product candidates. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations.. Our quarterly operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly.. We expect our operating results and cash flows to continue to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. • the commercial success of ILUVIEN, including its timing;. • inconsistent timing and ordering patterns from our U.S. distributors;. • seasonality caused by insurance renewals for patients in the U.S., and by doctor and or patient absences due to holidays and vacations;. • sales, marketing and medical affairs expenses;. • the timing and amount of royalties, milestone payments or product purchases by our distributors;. • our ability to obtain regulatory approval of ILUVIEN in additional jurisdictions or for additional indications, such as NIPU;. • regulatory developments affecting ILUVIEN, our future product candidates or our competitors' products;. • the emergence of products or treatments that compete with ILUVIEN;. 28. Table of Contents. • sales and marketing expenses;. • variations in the level of expenses related to our products or future development programs;. • the status of our preclinical and clinical development programs;. • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements;. • any lawsuit or intellectual property infringement in which we are or may become involved; and. • the timing and recognition of stock-based compensation expense.. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any fluctuations in our operating results or cash flows may, in turn, cause significant volatility in the price of our stock. We believe that comparisons of our quarterly financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. Exchange rate fluctuations of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could materially and adversely affect our business.. A substantial majority of our international revenues and expenses are denominated in British Pounds and Euros, and as such are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. We also have balances, such as cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accruals that are denominated in foreign currencies. These foreign currency transactions and balances are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the British Pound and Euro in relation to the U.S. Dollar could materially reduce our future revenues as compared to prior periods. We do not seek to mitigate this exchange rate effect by using derivative financial instruments. To the extent we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in that currency could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carry-forwards of approximately $121.4 million and $161.8 million, respectively, which expire at various dates beginning in 2020 through 2037, subject to further limitation based upon the final results of our Internal Revenue Code sections 382 and 383 analyses. Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code limit the annual use of NOL carry-forwards and tax credit carry-forwards, respectively, following an ownership change. NOL carry-forwards may be subject to annual limitations under Section 382 (or comparable provisions of state law) if certain changes in ownership of our company were to occur. In general, an ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 if there is a more than 50% change in ownership of a company over a 3-year testing period. We have determined that a Section 382 change in ownership occurred in December of 2015. As a result of this change in ownership, we estimated that approximately $18.6 million of our federal NOLs and approximately $382,000 of federal tax credits generated prior to the change in ownership will not be utilized in the future. We are currently in the process of refining and finalizing these calculations, and upon finalization, will determine if a write-off is necessary. The reduction to our NOL deferred tax asset due to the annual Section 382 limitation and the NOL carryforward period would result in an offsetting reduction in valuation allowance recorded against the NOL deferred tax asset. Therefore, the limitation does not affect the statements of operations for the periods presented.  Any future changes in our ownership or sale of our stock could further limit the use of our NOLs in the future. If we need to obtain alternative or additional financing to meet our liquidity requirements under our 2018 Loan Agreement and we raise such funds by selling additional equity, this could further limit the use of our NOLs in the future.. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with various securities laws and regulations and Nasdaq listing requirements.. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, has imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to legal compliance. Moreover, these rules and regulations require substantial costs related to legal and financial compliance and to director and officer liability insurance.. 29. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404), we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires us to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group. Moreover, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. If the interpretations, estimates or judgments we use to prepare our financial statements prove to be incorrect, we may be required to restate our financial results, which could have a number of material adverse effects on us.. We are also subject to complex tax laws, regulations, accounting principles and interpretations thereof. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to interpret accounting principles and guidance and to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. We base our interpretations, estimates and judgments on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for the preparation of our financial statements. Generally accepted accounting principles presentation is subject to interpretation by the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. If one of these bodies disagrees with our accounting recognition, measurement or disclosure or any of our accounting interpretations, estimates or assumptions, it may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. Any restatement of our financial results could, among other potential adverse effects:. • result in us incurring substantial costs,. • affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports until the restatement is completed,. • divert the attention of our management and employees from managing our business,. • result in material changes to our historical and future financial results,. • result in investors losing confidence in our operating results,. • subject us to securities class action litigation, and. • cause our stock price to decline.. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, reduce the commercial potential of our products and result in substantial liabilities, which insurance may not cover.. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims, which is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of drugs and related products. We face an increased risk of product liability as we further commercialize ILUVIEN, especially in the U.S. If the use of ILUVIEN or one or more of our future products causes physical harm, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. We believe that we may be at a greater risk of product liability claims relative to other pharmaceutical companies because ILUVIEN is inserted into the eye, and it is possible that we may be held liable for eye injuries of patients who receive ILUVIEN. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of ILUVIEN or one or more of our future products. Even if we are not held liable, product liability lawsuits could cause adverse publicity and decrease the demand for ILUVIEN, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations and financial condition.. Although we maintain product liability insurance covering our clinical trial activities and our product sales, our aggregate coverage limit under these insurance policies is limited to $10 million in most jurisdictions, and while we believe this amount of insurance is sufficient to cover our product liability exposure, these limits may not be high enough to fully cover potential liabilities. The insurance provides worldwide coverage where allowed by law. As we generate product revenue in new countries, we intend to obtain compulsory coverage in those countries that require it. However, we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant. 30. Table of Contents. liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product development and commercialization efforts.. Our internal information technology systems, or those of our third-party CROs or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, loss or leakage of data and other disruptions, which could result in a material disruption of certain parts of our business, compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information, potentially exposing us to liability or otherwise adversely affecting our business.. We depend on information technology systems, infrastructure and data to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information. We must maintain the confidentiality and integrity of that confidential information. We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and as a result we work with a number of third party contractors that have access to some of our confidential information.. Although we have implemented security, backup and recovery measures, our internal information technology systems and those of our third-party manufacturers, CROs and other contractors or consultants are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other damage or interruption from:. • service interruptions, system malfunction, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures, as well as security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, contractors, consultants, business partners or other third parties, and. • cyber-attacks by malicious third parties, including the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, malicious websites, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means to adversely affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.. Any of the foregoing may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage.. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date that has affected our business, we cannot assure that our and our vendors' data protection efforts and our and our vendors' investment in information technology will prevent significant breakdowns, data leakages, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect upon our reputation, business, operations or financial condition. For example, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our business operations, including, distribution and manufacturing.. For example, we sell ILUVIEN in the U.S. primarily to two distributors and in Europe utilize two logistics providers, and a security breach that impairs these distribution or logistics operations could significantly impair our ability to deliver our products to healthcare providers. In addition, ILUVIEN is manufactured and tested by third parties, and a security breach that impairs these third parties could significantly impair our ability to manufacture ILUVIEN and deliver it to our distributors in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our or their efforts will detect, prevent or fully recover systems or data from all breakdowns, service interruptions, attacks or breaches of systems, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive data, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us or impact our stock price.. In addition, the loss of clinical trial data for our product candidates or our post-market studies could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Furthermore, significant disruptions or security breaches of our internal information technology systems or our vendors' technology systems could adversely affect or result in the loss of, misappropriation of, unauthorized access to, use of, disclosure of or the prevention of access to our confidential information, including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information, which could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. For example, any such event that leads to unauthorized access to, use of or disclosure of personal information, including personal information regarding our employees or information we may have regarding patients, could harm our reputation directly, compel us to comply with federal and state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to mandatory corrective action and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and reputational damages that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages.. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials. In addition, our operations may produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Although we. 31. Table of Contents. believe that our procedures for use, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we comply with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns, as well as unstable market, credit and financial conditions, may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business and have serious adverse consequences on our business.. Economic conditions, and uncertainty as to the general direction of the macroeconomic environment, are beyond our control. Sales of our products will depend, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations in the U.S., Germany, Portugal and the United Kingdom and other countries. Negative trends in the general economy in any of the jurisdictions in which we may do business may cause these organizations to be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or to delay payment. In addition, health authorities in some jurisdictions may reduce reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our product sales and revenue.. In addition, we rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business. During challenging and uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third party contractors, suppliers or partners. If those third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We sell to two large pharmaceutical distributors in the U.S. and they accounted for 73% and 75% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property incorporated into our products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected.. Our success depends largely on our ability or the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries for the intellectual property incorporated into our products. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We or our licensors may be unable to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain (including making periodic filings and payments) and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Under our license with pSivida, pSivida controls the filing, prosecution and maintenance of all patents. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute or continue to prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against entities that are infringing upon these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we ordinarily would. Without protection for the intellectual property that we own or license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Moreover, FAc is an off-patent active ingredient that is commercially available in several forms, including the extended release ocular implant Retisert.. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, our patents and our licensors' patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology.. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our commercialization of ILUVIEN or the development or regulatory approval of other product candidates.. ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates may infringe upon other parties' intellectual property rights that are protected by patents or patent applications. Third parties may now or in the future own or control these patents and patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses or divert substantial employee resources from our business. If those claims are successful, we could be required to pay substantial damages or could be prevented from developing any future product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay manufacturing, sales, research or development of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit.. 32. Table of Contents. Several issued and pending U.S. patents claiming methods and devices for the treatment of eye diseases, including through the use of steroids, implants and injections into the eye, purport to cover aspects of ILUVIEN. For example, one of our potential competitors holds issued and pending U.S. patents and a pending European patent application with claims covering injecting an ocular implant into a patient's eye similar to the ILUVIEN applicator. There is also an issued U.S. patent with claims covering implanting a steroidal anti-inflammatory agent to treat an inflammation-mediated condition of the eye. If these or any other patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be valid and to cover aspects of ILUVIEN, then the owners of such patents would be able to block our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN unless and until we obtain a license under such patents (which license might require us to pay royalties or grant a cross-license to one or more patents that we own), until those patents expire or unless we are able to redesign our product to avoid any such valid patents.. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, or be prevented from commercializing a product or if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly.. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding, regardless of its merit, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may, regardless of their merit, also absorb significant management time and employee resources.. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are inadequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets.. The strength of our patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. In addition to the rights we have licensed from pSivida relating to ILUVIEN, we rely upon intellectual property we own, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. As of December 31, 2017, the patent rights relating to ILUVIEN licensed to us from pSivida included seven U.S. patents that expire between March 2019 and August 2027, two European patents expiring in April of 2021 and October of 2024 and counterpart filings to these patents in a number of other jurisdictions. No patent term extension will be available for any of these U.S. patents, European patents or any of our licensed U.S. or European pending patent applications. After these patents expire in August 2027 in the U.S. and October 2024 in Europe, we will not be able to block others from marketing FAc in an implant similar to ILUVIEN. Moreover, it is possible that a third party could successfully challenge the scope (i.e., whether a patent is infringed), validity and enforceability of our licensed patents before patent expiration and obtain approval to market a competitive product.. Further, the patent applications that we license or have filed may fail to result in issued patents. Patent examiners have rejected some claims in pending patent applications that we have filed or licensed. We may need to amend these claims. Even after amendment, a patent may not be permitted to issue. Further, the existing or future patents to which we have rights based on our agreement with pSivida may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. Additionally, we may lose our rights to the patents and patent applications we license in the event of a breach or termination of our license agreement with pSivida. Manufacturers may also seek to obtain approval to sell a generic version of ILUVIEN before the expiration of the relevant licensed patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents we license with respect to ILUVIEN or the patents we pursue related to ILUVIEN or any future product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to commercialize ILUVIEN and develop any future product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials for any future product candidate, the period during which we could market those product candidates under patent protection would be reduced.. We rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our development processes with respect to ILUVIEN that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and. 33. Table of Contents. technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the U.S. and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our commercialization efforts with respect to ILUVIEN and our discovery, development or commercialization efforts with respect to any future product candidates.. Our commercial success depends in part on avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, at least several issued and pending U.S. patents claiming methods and devices for the treatment of eye diseases, including through the use of steroids, implants and injections into the eye, purport to cover aspects of ILUVIEN.. Although we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to ILUVIEN, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may in the future allege that our activities infringe their patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We may not have identified all the patents, patent applications or published literature that could potentially affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates, by preventing the patentability of one or more aspects of our products or those of our licensors or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market our product. We cannot predict whether we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any inability to obtain such a license under the applicable patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates until such patents expire.. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of ILUVIEN, our technologies or future products or product candidates infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further commercialize ILUVIEN or develop and commercialize any future product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties, or we may be enjoined from further commercializing ILUVIEN or developing and commercializing any future product candidates or technologies. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of ILUVIEN or any future product candidate, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain future licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we may be unable to further commercialize ILUVIEN or develop and commercialize any future product candidates, which could harm our business significantly.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. 34. Table of Contents. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets and know-how. Any involuntary disclosure or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential or proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. We seek to protect confidential or proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. These agreements may be terminated or breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such termination or breach. Furthermore, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that any of our staff were previously employed by other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, those employers may allege violations of trade secrets and other similar claims in relation to their drug development activities for us.. RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. The realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors or other unforeseen risks could have a dramatic and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • our ability to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the U.S., Germany, the United Kingdom, Portugal, Ireland and Austria;. • the ability of our distributors to commercialize ILUVIEN in the countries where they have obtained distribution rights;. • whether ILUVIEN is approved for sale in any additional jurisdiction;. • whether our filing for a Type II variation for ILUVIEN for NIPU in 17 countries in the EEA is approved;. • whether ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates, if approved in additional jurisdictions, achieves and maintains commercial success;. • FDA or international regulatory actions, including failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates;. • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, regulatory approvals, clinical milestones, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and levels;. • our ability to meet our repayment and other obligations under our loan agreements;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation;. • the impact of Brexit on our business;. • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • any major change in our board of directors or management;. • results from our clinical trial programs;. • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products or product candidates on a timely basis;. 35. Table of Contents. • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and. • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism.. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various regulatory, scientific, clinical and other product development goals or milestones. These milestones may include:. • the submission of regulatory filings,. • the notification of the results of regulatory filings,. • the anticipated commercial launch of ILUVIEN in various new jurisdictions or for new or expanded indications,. • any future products or product candidates, and. • the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials.. Also, from time to time, we expect that we will publicly announce the anticipated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stock price may decline and the further commercialization of ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates may be delayed.. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies' stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against these companies. This litigation, if brought against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. The failure to maintain a minimum closing share price of $1.00 per share of our common stock could result in the delisting of our shares on the Nasdaq Global Market, which could materially reduce the liquidity of the common stock and have an adverse effect on its market price.. To retain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Our stock price is currently above $1.00. If the minimum bid price of our common stock were to fall below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, we would likely receive notification from the Nasdaq Global Market that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price rule, in which case we could be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market unless our Common Stock closed at or above $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive days during the 180 days immediately following failure to maintain the minimum bid price. If our stock price did not achieve that level, our stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, transferred to a listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or delisted from the Nasdaq markets altogether. The failure to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market could harm the liquidity of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders.. Investors that participated in our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock financing, including some of our large shareholders and our executive officers, key employees, directors and their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, a majority of the outstanding voting power of our common stock, assuming the exercise of the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and this concentration of voting power may have the effect of delaying or impeding actions that could be beneficial to you, including actions that our Board of Directors may support.. In addition, the terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock provide that certain corporate actions require the prior consent of the holders of at least 70% of the then outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.. Significant sales of our common stock could depress or reduce the market price of our common stock, or cause our shares of common stock to trade below the prices at which they would otherwise trade, or impede our ability to raise future capital.. A small number of institutional investors and private equity funds hold a significant number of shares of our common stock and all of our shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of common shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price. 36. Table of Contents. of our common stock. Additionally, a small number of investors have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders.. We may sell our shares in registered public offerings. For example, in August 2016, we sold an aggregate of 18,900,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $1.40 each, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $26.5 million, before deducting underwriting fees, commissions and offering expenses.. We also have the right to sell shares of our common stock through an at-the-market offering. For example, in 2017, we sold a total of 4,203,015 shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $1.43 per share pursuant to an at-the-market offering through Cowen and Company, LLC (Cowen), which has expired. We entered into a new at-the-market offering with HC Wainwright in the fourth quarter of 2017. Pursuant to our sales agreement with HC Wainwright, we could sell additional shares of common stock in the future if we determined it was appropriate or necessary to do so, which could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock.. In addition to our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2017, we are obligated to issue a total of 11,595,510 shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding common stock options granted under our equity incentive plans. Upon the exercise of these options, in accordance with their respective terms, these shares obtained by exercise may be resold freely, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under the SEC's Rule 144. If significant sales of these shares occur in short periods, these sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any reduction in the trading price of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital on attractive terms.. Actual or perceived significant sales of our common stock could depress or reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our shares of common stock to trade below the prices at which they would otherwise trade or impede our ability to raise future capital.. Future sales and issuances of our equity securities or rights to purchase our equity securities, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, would result in dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities; our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. See the preceding risk factor for the descriptions of public offerings we conducted in 2016 and 2017. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, whether in public or private offerings, investors may be diluted by subsequent sales. Those sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to existing stockholders. In addition, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is entitled to price-based anti-dilution protection in connection with certain financings, which has the potential to further dilute our other stockholders.. Pursuant to our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, our Board of Directors is authorized to grant various types of equity-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan increases each year by an amount equal to the lesser of 4% of all shares of our capital stock outstanding as of January 1st of each year, 2,000,000 shares, or such lesser number as determined by our Board of Directors. On January 1, 2018, an additional 2,000,000 shares became available for future issuance under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan in accordance with the annual increase. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we have reserved 414,689 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares eligible for purchase is replenished as of January 1st of each year in an amount equal to the shares purchased under the plan in the preceding year. As such, on January 1, 2018, an additional 79,733 shares became available for future issuance under our 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock contains covenants that may limit our business flexibility.. For so long as at least 37.5% of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock originally issued to the investors at the closing of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock financing in October 2012 are held by the initial investors or their affiliates, we may not, without first obtaining the approval of the holders of at least 70% of the then outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock:. • increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock;. • authorize, create, issue or obligate us to issue (by reclassification, merger or otherwise) any security (or any class or series thereof) or any indebtedness, in each case that has any rights, preferences or privileges senior to, or on a. 37. Table of Contents. parity with, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, or any security convertible into or exercisable for any such security or indebtedness, subject to limited exceptions for certain debt transactions;. • amend our certificate of incorporation or the certificate of designation of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, in each case in a manner that adversely affects the rights, preference or privileges of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock;. • redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire (or pay into or set aside for a sinking fund for such purpose) any shares of common stock or preferred stock; provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to (A) the redemption of rights issued pursuant to any \"poison pill\" rights plan or similar plan we adopt in the future or (B) the repurchases of stock from former employees, officers, directors or consultants who performed services for us in connection with the cessation of such employment or service pursuant to the terms of existing agreements with such individuals;. • declare or pay any dividend or distribution on any shares of capital stock; provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to (A) dividends payable to holders of common stock that consist solely of shares of common stock for which adjustment to the conversion price of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is made pursuant to the certificate of designation or (B) dividends or distributions issued pro rata to all holders of capital stock (on an as-converted basis) in connection with our implementation of a \"poison pill\" rights plan or similar plan;. • authorize or approve any increase to the number of aggregate shares of capital stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option, stock purchase plans or other equity incentive plans such that the total aggregate number of shares issued under such plans and reserved for issuance under such plans (on an as-converted basis) exceeds the number of shares issued and reserved for issuance under such plans (on an as-converted basis) on the date of the closing of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock financing by more than 20% (as adjusted for stock splits, combinations, stock dividends, recapitalizations and the like), provided that any increases resulting solely from the annual increases resulting from the \"evergreen\" provisions of equity incentive plans in effect in October 2012 shall not be subject to this restriction and shall not be included for purposes of determining whether such 20% increase has occurred;. • issue stock or other equity securities of any subsidiary (other than to us or another of our wholly-owned subsidiaries);. • declare or pay any dividend or other distribution of cash, shares or other assets or redemption or repurchase of shares of any subsidiary; or. • incur any secured indebtedness other than certain limited debt transactions.. There is no guarantee that the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock would approve any such restricted action, even where such an action would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Any failure to obtain such approval could harm our business and result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and in Delaware law could prevent or delay acquisition bids for us that stockholders might consider favorable and could entrench current management.. We are a Delaware corporation. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may deter, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would allow holders of less than a majority of our outstanding common stock to elect some directors;. • establish a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election;. • require that directors only be removed from office for cause;. • provide that vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. 38. Table of Contents. • contain certain protective provisions in favor of the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock;. • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibit common stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions of the holders of common stock to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 39. Table of Contents"
