[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the risks described below in addition to the financial and other information contained in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under the caption \"Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\" If any events described by the following risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. This could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. 31. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on our licensees in the commercialization and continued development of products from which we receive revenue; and if our licensees are not effective, our revenues could be materially adversely affected.. Our arrangements with licensees are critical to bringing products using our proprietary technologies and from which we receive manufacturing and/or royalty revenue to the market and successfully commercializing them. We rely on these licensees in various respects, including commercializing such products; providing funding for development programs and conducting pre-clinical testing and clinical trials with respect to new formulations or other development activities for such products; and managing the regulatory approval process.. The revenues that we receive from manufacturing fees and royalties depend primarily upon the success of our licensees, and particularly Janssen, Acorda, Biogen, and AstraZeneca, in commercializing certain products. Janssen is responsible for the commercialization of RISPERDAL CONSTA, INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION, and INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA, and, in Russia and the CIS, VIVITROL. Acorda and Biogen are responsible for commercializing AMPYRA and FAMPYRA, respectively. AstraZeneca is responsible for commercializing BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise. We have no involvement in the commercialization efforts for such products. Our revenues may fall below our expectations, the expectations of our licensees or those of investors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market price of our ordinary shares. Such revenues will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control.. Our licensees may also choose to use their own or other technology to develop an alternative product and withdraw their support of our product, or to compete with our jointly developed product. In addition, ARISTADA competes directly with RISPERDAL CONSTA, INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION and INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA, products from which we receive manufacturing and/or royalty revenue. Disputes may also arise between us and a licensee and may involve the ownership of technology developed under a license or other issues arising out of collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the related program or result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor.. In addition, most of our licensees can terminate their agreements with us without cause, and we cannot guarantee that any of these relationships will continue. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay in, or failure of, a licensee's performance, or factors that may affect a licensee's sales, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We receive substantial revenues from our key products.. We depend substantially upon continued sales of INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION,  INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA and RISPERDAL CONSTA by Janssen, upon continued sales of AMPYRA/FAMPYRA by Acorda and its sublicensee, Biogen, and upon our continued sales of VIVITROL and ARISTADA. Any significant negative developments relating to these products, or to our licensee relationships, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our revenues may be lower than expected as a result of failure by the marketplace to accept our products or for other factors.. We cannot be assured that our products will be, or will continue to be, accepted in the U.S. or in any markets outside the U.S. or that sales of our products will not decline or cease in the future. A number of factors may cause revenues from sales of our products to grow at a slower than expected rate, or even to decrease or cease, including:. <U+25CF>the perception of physicians and other members of the healthcare community as to our products' safety and efficacy relative to that of competing products and the willingness or ability of physicians and other members of the healthcare community to prescribe or dispense, and patients to use, our products, including those that may be scheduled by the DEA (if and when approved);. <U+25CF>unfavorable publicity concerning us or our products, similar classes of drugs or the industry generally;. <U+25CF>the cost-effectiveness of our products;. <U+25CF>patient and physician satisfaction with our products;. <U+25CF>the successful manufacture of our products on a timely basis;. <U+25CF>the cost and availability of raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products;. <U+25CF>the size of the markets for our products;. <U+25CF>reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers;. 32. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>the introduction, availability and acceptance of competing treatments, including treatments marketed and sold by our licensees;. <U+25CF>the reaction of companies that market competitive products;. <U+25CF>adverse event information relating to our products or to similar classes of drugs;. <U+25CF>changes to the product labels of our products, or of products within the same drug classes, to add significant warnings or restrictions on use;. <U+25CF>our continued ability to access third parties to vial, package and/or distribute our products on acceptable terms;. <U+25CF>the unfavorable outcome of litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's (the \"USPTO\") Patent Trial and Appeal Board (the \"PTAB\"), including so-called \"Paragraph IV\" litigation, inter partes reviews (\"IPR\") and other patent litigation, related to any of our products, including Paragraph IV litigation relating to INVEGA SUSTENNA and AMPYRA;. <U+25CF>regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of our products, including the issuance of a REMS by the FDA;. <U+25CF>the extent and effectiveness of the sales and marketing and distribution support our products receive, including from our licensees;. <U+25CF>our licensees' decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounting;. <U+25CF>disputes with our licensees relating to the marketing and sale of products from which we receive revenue;. <U+25CF>exchange rate valuations and fluctuations; and. <U+25CF>any other material adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of our products.. Our revenues will also fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of other factors, including the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, our licensees' orders, the timing of shipments, and our ability to manufacture products successfully, including our yield and our production schedule. The unit costs to manufacture our products may be higher than anticipated if certain volume levels are not achieved. In addition, we may not be able to supply the products in a timely manner or at all.. We have less experience in the commercialization of long-acting atypical antipsychotics and oral antidepressants than our competitors.. In October 2015, we launched ARISTADA into a highly competitive market in which it competes head-to-head with products marketed and sold by companies larger than us and with more experience than us in the commercialization of long-acting injectable atypical antipsychotic products for the treatment of schizophrenia.. We lack experience commercializing products in markets with multiple branded and generic competitors, including schizophrenia and depression, and will face competition from companies with more experience and resources than we have. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified personnel to serve in our sales and marketing organization, to maintain effective distribution networks and reimbursement for our products, or to otherwise effectively and efficiently support our commercialization activities, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products and such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve our products or may delay approval.. We must obtain government approvals before marketing or selling our products in the U.S. and in jurisdictions outside the U.S. The FDA, DEA (to the extent a product is a controlled substance), and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries, impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production and commercial introduction of drug products. These include pre-clinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Satisfaction of the requirements of the FDA and of other regulatory agencies typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product.. In addition, regulation is not static, and regulatory agencies, including the FDA, evolve in their staff, interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned drug development and/or our commercialization efforts. The approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval also varies among countries. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory agency does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. In addition, the FDA or regulatory agencies outside the U.S. may choose not to communicate with or update us during clinical testing. 33. Table of Contents. and regulatory review periods. The ultimate decision by the FDA or other regulatory agencies regarding drug approval may not be consistent with prior communications.. This product approval process can last many years, be very costly and still be unsuccessful. Regulatory approval by the FDA or regulatory agencies outside the U.S. can be delayed, limited or not granted at all for many reasons, including:. <U+25CF>a product may not demonstrate safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with the FDA's or regulatory agencies' standards;. <U+25CF>data from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials may be interpreted by the FDA or other regulatory agencies in different ways than we or our licensees interpret it;. <U+25CF>the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not agree with our or our licensees' regulatory approval strategies, components of our or our licensees' filings, such as clinical trial designs, conduct and methodologies, or the sufficiency of our or our licensees' submitted data;. <U+25CF>the FDA or other regulatory agencies might not approve our or our licensees' manufacturing processes or facilities;. <U+25CF>the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve accelerated development timelines for our products;. <U+25CF>the failure of our clinical investigational sites and the records kept at such sites, including the clinical trial data, to be in compliance with the FDA's GCP, or EU legislation governing GCP, including the failure to pass FDA, EMA or EU member state inspections of clinical trials;. <U+25CF>the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations; and. <U+25CF>adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that a program be terminated or placed on clinical hold, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for products will prevent their commercialization. Any delay in obtaining regulatory approval for products could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize such products. In addition, share prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA approval of a product or where the timing of FDA approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any other regulatory agency's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our products, our share price could decline significantly and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Clinical trials for our products are expensive, may take several years to complete, and their outcome is uncertain.. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we or our licensees must demonstrate, through pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, that our products are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. We have incurred, and we will continue to incur, substantial expense for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials.. Our pre-clinical and clinical development efforts may not be successfully completed. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time can vary substantially with the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including:. <U+25CF>the potential delay by a partner in beginning a clinical trial;. <U+25CF>the failure of third-party CROs and other third-party service providers and independent clinical investigators to manage and conduct the trials, to perform their oversight of the trials or to meet expected deadlines;. <U+25CF>the inability to recruit clinical trial participants at the expected rate;. <U+25CF>the inability to follow patients adequately after treatment;. <U+25CF>unforeseen safety issues;. <U+25CF>the inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials used for clinical trials; and. <U+25CF>unforeseen governmental or regulatory issues or concerns, including those of the FDA, DEA and other regulatory agencies.. In addition, we are currently conducting and enrolling patients in clinical studies in a number of countries where our experience is more limited. For example, phase 3 efficacy studies of ALKS 3831 are being conducted in many countries around the world, including in Europe and Israel. We depend on independent clinical investigators, CROs and other third-party service providers and our collaborators in the conduct of clinical trials for our products and in the accurate. 34. Table of Contents. reporting of results from such clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, while the investigators are not our employees, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols.. The outcome of our clinical trials is uncertain. The results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often have not predicted results of later clinical trials. A number of products have shown promising results in early clinical trials but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data in later clinical trials to obtain necessary regulatory approvals.. If a product fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials, or if third parties fail to conduct clinical trials in accordance with their obligations, the development, approval and commercialization of our products may be delayed or prevented, and such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We are subject to risks related to the manufacture of our products.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products is a highly complex process in which a variety of difficulties may arise from time to time including, but not limited to, product loss due to material failure, equipment failure, vendor error, operator error, labor shortages, inability to obtain material, equipment or transportation, physical or electronic security breaches, natural disasters and many other factors. Problems with manufacturing processes could result in product defects or manufacturing failures, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped, or could impair our ability to expand into new markets or supply products in existing markets. We may not be able to resolve any such problems in a timely fashion, if at all.. We rely solely on our manufacturing facility in Wilmington, Ohio for the manufacture of RISPERDAL CONSTA, VIVITROL, ARISTADA, polymer for BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise and certain of our other development products. We rely on our manufacturing facility in Athlone, Ireland for the manufacture of AMPYRA/FAMPYRA and some of our other products using our NanoCrystal and OCR technologies.. Due to regulatory and technical requirements, we have limited ability to shift production among our facilities or to outsource any part of our manufacturing to third parties. If we cannot produce sufficient commercial quantities of our products to meet demand, there are currently very few, if any, third-party manufacturers capable of manufacturing our products as contract suppliers. We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement on reasonable terms, if at all, with those manufacturers. Even if we were to reach agreement, the transition of the manufacturing process to a third party to enable commercial supplies could take a significant amount of time and money, and may not be successful.. Our manufacturing facilities also require specialized personnel and are expensive to operate and maintain. Any delay in the regulatory approval or market launch of products, or suspension of the sale of our products, manufactured in our facilities, may cause operating losses as we continue to operate these facilities and retain specialized personnel. In addition, any interruption in manufacturing could result in delays in meeting contractual obligations and could damage our relationships with our licensees, including the loss of manufacturing and supply rights.. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with the manufacture and distribution of our products.. We rely on third parties for the timely supply of specified raw materials, equipment, contract manufacturing, formulation and packaging services, storage and product distribution services, customer service activities and product returns processing. These third parties must comply with federal, state and local regulations applicable to their business, including FDA and, as applicable, DEA regulations. Although we actively manage these third-party relationships to ensure continuity, quality and compliance with regulations, some events beyond our control could result in the complete or partial failure of these goods and services. Any such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The manufacture of products and product components, including the procurement of bulk drug product, packaging, storage and distribution of our products, requires successful coordination among us and multiple third-party providers. For example, we are responsible for the entire supply chain for both ARISTADA and VIVITROL, up to the sale of final product and including the sourcing of key raw materials and active pharmaceutical agents from third parties. Issues with our third-party providers, including our inability to coordinate these efforts, lack of capacity available at such third-party. 35. Table of Contents. providers or any other problems with the operations of these third-party providers, could require us to delay shipment of saleable products, recall products previously shipped or could impair our ability to supply products at all. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. In addition, due to the unique nature of the production of our products, there are several single-source providers of our key raw materials. We endeavor to qualify and register new vendors and to develop contingency plans so that production is not impacted by issues associated with single-source providers. Nonetheless, our business could be materially and adversely affected by issues associated with single-source providers.. We are also dependent in certain cases on third parties to manufacture products. Where the manufacturing rights to the products using our technologies are granted to, or retained by, our third-party licensee (for example, in the cases of INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION, INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA, BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise) or approved sub-licensee, we have no control over the manufacturing, supply or distribution of the product. Supply or manufacturing issues encountered by such licensees or sublicenses could materially and adversely affect sales of products from which we receive revenue, and our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If we or our third-party providers fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of our products, we could incur substantial remedial costs and a reduction in sales and/or revenues.. We and our third-party providers are generally required to comply with cGMP regulations and other applicable foreign standards in the manufacture of our products. In addition, in the U.S., the DEA and state-level agencies heavily regulate the manufacturing, holding, processing, security, recordkeeping and distribution of substances, including controlled substances. Our products that are scheduled by the DEA as controlled substances make us subject to the DEA's regulations. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA, the DEA and comparable state and foreign agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm compliance with all applicable laws. Any changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing require amending our application to the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and ultimate amendment acceptance by such agencies, prior to release of product to the applicable marketplace. Our inability or the inability of our third-party providers to demonstrate ongoing cGMP or other regulatory compliance could require us to withdraw or recall products and interrupt clinical and commercial supply of our products. Any delay, interruption or other issues that may arise in the manufacture, formulation, packaging or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. This could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation.. The FDA and various regulatory agencies outside the U.S. have inspected and approved our commercial manufacturing facilities. We cannot guarantee that the FDA or any other regulatory agencies will approve any other facility we or our third-party providers may operate or, once approved, that any of these facilities will remain in compliance with cGMP and other regulations. Any third party we use to manufacture bulk drug product must be licensed by the FDA and, for controlled substances, the DEA. Failure by us or our third-party providers to gain or maintain regulatory compliance with the FDA or other regulatory agencies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Revenues generated by sales of our products depend on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, and a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement or an increase in our financial obligation to governmental payers could result in decreased sales of our products and decreased revenues.. In both U.S. and non-U.S. markets, sales of our products depend, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as state and federal governments, including Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S. and similar programs in other countries, managed care providers and private insurance plans. Deterioration in the timeliness, certainty and amount of reimbursement for our products, the existence of barriers to coverage of our products (such as prior authorization, criteria for use or other requirements), increases in our financial obligation to government payers (including due to changes in our AMP calculation), limitations by healthcare providers on how much, or under what circumstances, they will prescribe or administer our products or unwillingness by patients to pay any required co-payments, or deductible amounts, could reduce the use of, and revenues generated from, our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, when a new product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for. 36. Table of Contents. our products.. In the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payers continue to focus on containing the cost of healthcare, including by comparing the effectiveness, benefits and costs of similar treatments. Any adverse findings for our products from such comparisons may reduce the extent of reimbursement for our products. Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for drugs, including but not limited to price control initiatives, discounts and other pricing-related actions. For example, in 2017, the State of California enacted as law SB-17, a drug pricing transparency bill that requires, among other things, that manufacturers notify the state and health insurers, and justify, any time such manufacturers plan to increase the price of a medication by sixteen percent (16%) or more over a two-year period. We expect similar state drug pricing initiatives to be proposed in 2018. In addition, State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products.. In 2018, we may face uncertainties as a result of likely continued federal and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the PPACA and potential reforms and changes to government negotiation or regulation of drug pricing. There is no assurance that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, or such reforms and changes, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. The government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and many other countries are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures, including payment for drugs and biologics. We expect that countries may take actions to reduce expenditure on drugs and biologics, including mandatory price reductions, patient access restrictions, suspensions of price increases, increased mandatory discounts or rebates, preference for generic products, reduction in the amount of reimbursement and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries. These cost-control measures likely would reduce our revenues. In addition, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, the inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may not only limit the marketing of products within that country, but may also adversely affect the ability to obtain acceptable prices in other markets.. Patent protection for our products is important and uncertain.. The following factors are important to our success:. <U+25CF>receiving and maintaining patent and/or trademark protection for our products, technologies and developing technologies, including those that are the subject of our licenses;. <U+25CF>maintaining our trade secrets;. <U+25CF>not infringing the proprietary rights of others; and. <U+25CF>preventing others from infringing our proprietary rights.. Patent protection only provides rights of exclusivity for the term of the patent. We are able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. In this regard, we try to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and elsewhere related to our proprietary product inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business and products. Our pending patent applications, together with those we may file in the future, or those we may license to or from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Even if issued, such patents may not provide us with sufficient proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. The development of new technologies or products may take a number of years, and there can be no assurance that any patents which may be granted in respect of such technologies or products will not have expired or be due to expire or withstand challenge by the time such products are commercialized.. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to ensure that our proprietary technology does not infringe the rights of third parties, we cannot ascertain the existence of all potentially. 37. Table of Contents. conflicting claims. Therefore, there is a risk that third parties may make claims of infringement against our products or technologies. There may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. There may also be patent applications filed by third parties that relate to some of our products. If patents exist or are issued that cover our products, we may not be able to manufacture, use, offer for sale, sell or import such products without first getting a license from the patent holder. The patent holder may not grant us a license on reasonable terms, or it may refuse to grant us a license at all. This could delay or prevent us from developing, manufacturing, selling or importing those of our products that would require the license. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Because the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions, enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. The ultimate degree of patent protection that will be afforded to products and processes, including ours, and those of our licensees, in the U.S. and in other important markets, remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As more products are commercialized using our proprietary product platforms, or as any product achieves greater commercial success, our patents become more likely to be subject to challenge by potential competitors. The laws of certain countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S.,  and any patents that we own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies outside the scope of our patent coverage.. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our licensees, licensors, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, such event could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Uncertainty over intellectual property in the biopharmaceutical industry has been the source of litigation, which is inherently costly and unpredictable.. There is considerable uncertainty within the biopharmaceutical industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. We cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted to be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our products.. In part as a result of this uncertainty, there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation and an increasing number of IPRs and administrative proceedings in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. A patent holder might file an IPR, interference and/or infringement action against us claiming that certain claims of one or more of our issued patents are invalid or that the manufacture, use, offer for sale, sale or import of our products infringed one or more of such party's patents. We may have to expend considerable time, effort and resources to defend such actions. In addition, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties who infringe our patents and other intellectual property or challenge our patents, patent applications or trademark applications (see \" - We or our licensees may face claims against our intellectual property rights covering our products and competition from generic drug manufacturers\" for additional information regarding litigation with generic drug manufacturers). We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. Competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our products.. Litigation and trial proceedings, such as IPRs, concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be expensive, protracted with no certainty of success, and distracting to management. Ultimately, the outcome of such litigation and proceedings could adversely affect our business and the validity and scope of our patents or other proprietary rights or hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products.. 38. Table of Contents. We rely on a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers to distribute our product.. As is typical in the pharmaceutical industry, we utilize pharmaceutical wholesalers in connection with the distribution of the products that we market and sell. A significant amount of our product is sold to end-users through the three largest wholesalers in the U.S. market, Cardinal Health Inc., AmerisourceBergen Corp. and McKesson Corp. If we are unable to maintain our business relationships with these major pharmaceutical wholesalers on commercially acceptable terms, if the buying patterns of these wholesalers fluctuate due to seasonality or if wholesaler buying decisions or other factors outside of our control change, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our business may suffer if we are unable to develop new products.. Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the successful development of new products from our research and development activities and we expect the development of products for our own account to consume substantial resources. Since we fund the development of our proprietary products, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund all such development efforts to completion or to provide the support necessary to perform the clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, obtain a final DEA scheduling designation (to the extent our products are controlled substances) or market any approved products on a worldwide basis. If we are able to develop commercial products on our own, the risks associated with these programs may be greater than those associated with our programs with licensees.. If our delivery technologies or product development efforts fail to result in the successful development and commercialization of products, if our licensees decide not to pursue development and/or commercialization of our products or if our products do not perform as anticipated, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations (see \" - Our revenues may be lower than expected as a result of failure by the marketplace to accept our products or for other factors\" for factors that may affect the market acceptance of our products approved for sale).. The FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations or post-approval requirements on any product approval.. Even if regulatory approval to market a product is granted by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, the approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which the product may be marketed or additional post-approval requirements with which we would need to comply in order to maintain the approval of such product. Our business could be seriously harmed if we do not complete these post-approval requirements and the FDA or other regulatory agencies, as a result, require us to change the label for our products.. Further, if a product for which we obtain regulatory approval is a controlled substance, it will not become commercially available until after the DEA provides its final schedule designation, which may take longer and may be more restrictive than we expect or may change after its initial designation. We currently expect ALKS 5461 and ALKS 3831 to require such DEA final schedule designation prior to commercialization. A restrictive designation could adversely affect our ability to commercialize such products and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. In addition, legislative and regulatory proposals have also been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products.  We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the commercialization of our products, if any, may be.. Litigation or arbitration against Alkermes, including securities litigation, or citizen petitions filed with the FDA, may result in financial losses, harm our reputation, divert management resources, negatively impact the approval of our products, or otherwise negatively impact our business.. We may be the subject of certain claims, including those asserting violations of securities and fraud and abuse laws and derivative actions. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. In November 2017, a purported stockholder of ours filed a putative class action against us and certain of our officers on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of our securities during the period of February 24, 2015 to November 3, 2017. Such action alleges violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on allegedly false or misleading statements and omissions regarding our marketing practices. 39. Table of Contents. related to VIVITROL, and seeks to recover unspecified damages for alleged inflation in the price of securities, and reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees. For further discussion of this putative class action, see Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies in the \"Notes to Condensed Consolidated Statements\" and \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report. This punitive class action and any similar future litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. In June 2017, we received a subpoena from an Office of the U.S. Attorney for documents related to VIVITROL. We are cooperating with the government. If, as a result of the government's request, proceedings are initiated and we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, we may be subject to significant liability, including without limitation, civil fines, criminal fines and penalties, civil damages and exclusion from federal funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as potential liability under the federal anti-kickback statute and False Claims Act and state False Claims Acts, and be required to enter into a corporate integrity or other settlement with the government, any of which could materially affect our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Conduct giving rise to such liability could also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payors or other persons allegedly harmed by such conduct. In addition, if some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, including changes and impacts on the practices of our sales force, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in litigation or arbitration which may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our business. Our liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy, or may not cover, any expenses or liabilities that may arise.. We may also be the subject of citizen petitions that request that the FDA refuse to approve, delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for our NDAs.  If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the NDA in question. Even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition or impose additional approval requirements as a result of such petition. These outcomes and others could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of our products and products using our proprietary technologies, and our share price.. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the healthcare industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.. Our activities, and the activities of our licensees and third-party providers, are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various national, state and local agencies, which includes detailed inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, marketing and promotion, adverse event reporting, sampling, distribution, recordkeeping, storage, and disposal practices, and achieving compliance with these regulations, substantially increases the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approvals to market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the manufacture and sale of products, and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties. Biopharmaceutical companies also have been the target of government lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations and violations related to environmental matters. In addition, we may be the subject of securities law claims and derivative actions.. While we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our licensees, our consultants or our contractors are, or will be, in compliance with all applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all applicable regulations and/or laws outside the U.S. and interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices. If we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation.. 40. Table of Contents. Changes in laws affecting the healthcare industry, including new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to patent protection and enforcement, healthcare availability, and product pricing and marketing, could also adversely affect our revenues and our potential to be profitable. The enactment in the U.S. of healthcare reform and the promulgation of regulations, new legislation and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. The costs of prescription pharmaceuticals in the United States has also been the subject of considerable discussion in the U.S. and the current administration has stated that it will address such costs through new legislative and administrative measures. These measures, if adopted, could impact our ability to generate revenues from our products.. We face competition in the biopharmaceutical industry.. We face intense competition in the development, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of our products from many and varied sources, such as academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, including other companies with similar technologies, and manufacturers of generic drugs (see \" - We or our licensees may face claims against our intellectual property rights covering our products and competition from generic drug manufacturers.\" for additional information relating to competition from generic drug manufacturers). Some of these competitors are also our licensees, who control the commercialization of products from which we receive manufacturing and/or royalty revenues. These competitors are working to develop and market other systems, products, and other methods of preventing or reducing disease, and new small-molecule and other classes of drugs that can be used with or without a drug delivery system.. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intensive research, development and commercialization efforts and rapid and significant technological change. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect our competitors to attempt to develop new technologies, products and processes that may be more effective than those we develop. The development of technologically improved or different products or technologies may make our products or product platforms obsolete or noncompetitive before we recover expenses incurred in connection with their development or realize any revenues from any product.. There are other companies developing extended-release product platforms. In many cases, there are products on the market or in development that may be in direct competition with our products. In addition, we know of new chemical entities that are being developed that, if successful, could compete against our products. These chemical entities are being designed to work differently than our products and may turn out to be safer or more effective than our products. Among the many experimental therapies being tested around the world, there may be some that we do not now know of that may compete with our proprietary product platforms or products. Our licensees could choose a competing technology to use with their drugs instead of one of our product platforms and could develop products that compete with our products.. With respect to our proprietary injectable product platform, we are aware that there are other companies developing extended-release delivery systems for pharmaceutical products, including, but not limited to Luye Pharma, which is developing risperidone formulated as extended release microspheres for intramuscular injection for the treatment of schizophrenia and/or schizoaffective disorders and Indivior plc, which is developing a once-monthly injectable risperidone for the treatment of schizophrenia. In the treatment of schizophrenia, ARISTADA, INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION and INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA and RISPERDAL CONSTA compete with each other and a number of other injectable products including ZYPREXA RELPREVV ((olanzapine) For Extended Release Injectable Suspension), which is marketed and sold by Lilly; ABILIFY MAINTENA, (aripiprazole for extended release injectable suspension), a once-monthly injectable formulation of ABILIFY (aripiprazole) developed by Otsuka Pharm. Co.; oral compounds currently on the market; and generic versions of branded oral and injectable products. In the treatment of bipolar disorder, RISPERDAL CONSTA competes with antipsychotics such as oral aripiprazole, REXULTI, LATUDA, ABILIFY MAINTENA, risperidone, olanzapine, ziprasidone and clozapine.. In the treatment of alcohol dependence, VIVITROL competes with generic acamprosate calcium (also known as CAMPRAL) and generic disulfiram (also known as ANTABUSE) as well as currently marketed drugs, including generic drugs, also formulated from naltrexone. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing products that have shown some promise in treating alcohol dependence that, if approved by the FDA, would compete with VIVITROL.. In the treatment of opioid dependence, VIVITROL competes with SUBOXONE (buprenorphine HCl/naloxone HCl dehydrate sublingual tablets), SUBOXONE (buprenorphine/naloxone) Sublingual Film, SUBUTEX (buprenorphine HCl. 41. Table of Contents. sublingual tablets) and, once launched, will compete with SUBLOCADE (once-monthly buprenorphine extended-release injection), each of which is, or will be, marketed and sold by Indivior plc, and BUNAVAIL buccal film (buprenorphine and naloxone) marketed by BioDelivery Sciences, PROBUPHINE (buprenorphine) from Titan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and ZUBSOLV (buprenorphine and naloxone) marketed by Orexo US, Inc. It also competes with methadone, oral naltrexone and generic versions of SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE sublingual tablets. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing products that have shown promise in treating opioid dependence that, if approved by the FDA, would compete with VIVITROL.. BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise compete with established therapies for market share. Such competitive products include sulfonylureas, metformin, insulins, thiazolidinediones, glinides, dipeptidyl peptidase type IV inhibitors, insulin sensitizers, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors and sodium-glucose transporter-2 inhibitors. BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise also compete with other glucagon-like peptide-1 (\"GLP-1\") agonists, including VICTOZA (liraglutide (rDNA origin) injection), which is marketed and sold by Novo Nordisk A/S. Other pharmaceutical companies are developing products for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that, if approved by the FDA, would compete with BYDUREON and BYDUREON BCise.. While AMPYRA/FAMPYRA is approved as a treatment to improve walking in patients with MS, there are a number of FDA-approved therapies for MS disease management that seek to reduce the frequency and severity of exacerbations or slow the accumulation of physical disability for people with certain types of MS. These products include AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA, and PLEGRIDY from Biogen; OCREVUS from Genentech; BETASERON from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals; COPAXONE from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.; REBIF and NOVANTRONE from EMD Serono, Inc.; GILENYA and EXTAVIA from Novartis AG; AUBAGIO and LEMTRADA from Sanofi-Aventis, and generic products, including potential generic versions of AMPYRA.. With respect to our NanoCrystal technology, we are aware that other technology approaches similarly address poorly water-soluble drugs. These approaches include nanoparticles, cyclodextrins, lipid-based self-emulsifying drug delivery systems, dendrimers and micelles, among others, any of which could limit the potential success and growth prospects of products incorporating our NanoCrystal technology. In addition, there are many competing technologies to our OCR technology, some of which are owned by large pharmaceutical companies with drug delivery divisions and other, smaller drug delivery-specific companies.. If we are unable to compete successfully in the biopharmaceutical industry, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We or our licensees may face claims against intellectual property rights covering our products and competition from generic drug manufacturers.. In the U.S., generic manufacturers of innovator drug products may file ANDAs and, in connection with such filings, certify that their products do not infringe the innovator's patents and/or that the innovator's patents are invalid. This often results in litigation between the innovator and the ANDA applicant. This type of litigation is commonly known in the U.S. as \"Paragraph IV\" litigation.. We have received notices of ANDA filings for AMPYRA asserting that a generic form of AMPYRA would not infringe AMPYRA's Orange-Book listed patents and/or those patents are invalid. We are currently engaged in Paragraph IV litigation disputing such claims. This litigation may be costly and time consuming. For a discussion of legal proceedings related to the patents covering AMPYRA, see Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies in the \"Notes to Condensed Consolidated Statements\" and \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report.. Similarly, Janssen Pharmaceuticals NV and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. initiated a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva, who filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of INVEGA SUSTENNA. For a discussion of the legal proceedings related to the patents covering INVEGA SUSTENNA, see Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies in the \"Notes to Condensed Consolidated Statements\" and \"Item 3 - Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report.. Although we intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights, and we expect our licensees will do the same, there can be no assurance that we or our licensees will prevail in our defense of our patent rights. Our and our licensees' existing patents could be invalidated, found unenforceable or found not to cover generic forms of our or our licensees' products. If an ANDA filer were to receive FDA approval to sell a generic version of our products and/or. 42. Table of Contents. prevail in any patent litigation, our products would become subject to increased competition and our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The commercial use of our products may cause unintended side effects or adverse reactions, or incidents of misuse may occur, which could adversely affect our business and share price.. We cannot predict whether the commercial use of our products will produce undesirable or unintended side effects that have not been evident in the use of, or in clinical trials conducted for, such products to date. The administration of drugs in humans carries the inherent risk of product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause of an injury. Our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the products have been administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. Additionally, incidents of product misuse may occur.. These events, among others, could result in product recalls, product liability actions or withdrawals or additional regulatory controls (including additional regulatory scrutiny, REMS programs, and requirements for additional labeling).  Our product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any liabilities that may arise. As our development activities progress and we continue to have commercial sales, this product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate, we may be unable to obtain adequate coverage at an acceptable cost or at all, or our insurer may disclaim coverage as to a future claim. This could prevent or limit our commercialization of our products. In addition, the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products and public rumors about such events could cause our product sales or share price to decline or experience periods of volatility. These types of events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our business involves environmental, health and safety risks.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and chemicals and is subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to periodic inspections for possible violations of these laws and regulations. Under certain of these laws and regulations, we could be liable for any contamination at our current or former properties or third-party waste disposal sites. In addition to significant remediation costs, contamination can give rise to third-party claims for fines, penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury and damage (including property damage). The costs of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are significant. Any violations, even if inadvertent or accidental, of current or future environmental, health or safety laws or regulations, the cost of compliance with any resulting order or fine and any liability imposed in connection with any contamination for which we may be responsible could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We may not become profitable on a sustained basis.. At December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $1,044.4 million, which was primarily the result of net losses incurred from 1987, the year Alkermes, Inc., was founded, through December 31, 2017, partially offset by net income over certain fiscal periods. There can be no assurance we will achieve sustained profitability.. A major component of our revenue is dependent on our licensees' and our ability to commercialize, and our and our licensees' ability to manufacture economically, our products.  Our ability to achieve sustained profitability in the future depends, in part, on our or our licensees', as applicable, ability to:. <U+25CF>successfully commercialize VIVITROL and ARISTADA in the U.S. and any other products that may be approved in the U.S. or in other countries;. <U+25CF>obtain and maintain regulatory approval for products both in the U.S. and in other countries;. <U+25CF>efficiently manufacture our products;. <U+25CF>support the commercialization of products by our licensees;. <U+25CF>enter into agreements to develop and commercialize our products;. <U+25CF>develop, have manufactured or expand our capacity to manufacture and market our products;. <U+25CF>obtain adequate reimbursement coverage for our products from insurance companies, government programs and other third-party payers;. <U+25CF>obtain additional research and development funding for our proprietary products; and. <U+25CF>achieve certain product development milestones.. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our profitability. Our spending will depend, in part, on:. 43. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>the progress of our research and development programs for our products, including clinical trials;. <U+25CF>the time and expense that will be required to pursue FDA and/or other regulatory approvals for our products and whether such approvals are obtained;. <U+25CF>the time that will be required for the DEA to provide its final scheduling designation for our products that are controlled substances;. <U+25CF>the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights;. <U+25CF>the cost of building, operating and maintaining manufacturing and research facilities;. <U+25CF>the cost of third-party manufacturers;. <U+25CF>the number of products we pursue, particularly proprietary products;. <U+25CF>how competing technological and market developments affect our products;. <U+25CF>the cost of possible acquisitions of technologies, compounds, product rights or companies;. <U+25CF>the cost of obtaining licenses to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise;. <U+25CF>the costs of potential litigation; and. <U+25CF>the costs associated with recruiting and compensating a highly skilled workforce in an environment where competition for such employees is intense.. We may not achieve all or any of these goals, and thus we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on a sustained basis or achieve significant revenues. Even if we do achieve some or all of these goals, we may not achieve significant or sustained commercial success.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business.. Pursuant to an amendment to our credit agreement, dated as of October 12, 2016, we extended our $288.0 million term loan with an interest rate at LIBOR plus 2.75% with a LIBOR floor of 0.75% by two years to September 25, 2021 (\"Term Loan B-1\").. Our existing indebtedness is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the combined company assets and properties of Alkermes plc and most of its subsidiaries, which serve as guarantors. The agreements governing Term Loan B-1 include a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of these financing arrangements could adversely affect our business by, among other things:. <U+25CF>requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, research and development and capital expenditures;. <U+25CF>limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt;. <U+25CF>limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as potential acquisition opportunities; and. <U+25CF>increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our failure to comply with these restrictions or to make these payments could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to ensure compliance with these covenants or to remedy any such default. In the event of an acceleration of this indebtedness, we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments.. We may require additional funds to execute on our business strategy, and such funding may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all, and may cause dilution to our existing shareholders.. We may require additional funds in the future to execute on our business strategy, and we may seek funds through various sources, including debt and equity offerings, corporate collaborations, bank borrowings, arrangements relating to assets, sale of royalty streams we receive on our products or other financing methods or structures. The source, timing and availability of any financings will depend on market conditions, interest rates and other factors. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities to raise funds, our shareholders will suffer dilution of their investment, and it may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors or lenders may demand, and may be granted, rights. 44. Table of Contents. superior to those of existing shareholders. If we issue additional debt securities in the future, our existing debt service obligations will increase further. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and need to use existing cash or liquidate investments in order to fund our debt service obligations or to repay our debt, we may be forced to delay or terminate clinical trials or curtail operations. We cannot be certain, however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources when needed or, if available, will be on acceptable terms, if at all, particularly if the credit and financial markets are constrained at the time we require funding. If we fail to obtain additional capital when we need it, we may not be able to execute our business strategy successfully and may have to give up rights to our product platforms, and/or products, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Adverse financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business.. As a result of adverse financial market conditions, organizations that reimburse for use of our products, such as government health administration authorities and private health insurers, may be unable to satisfy such obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce reimbursements (including Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements in the U.S.) or payments, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. We are also dependent on the performance of our licensees, and we sell our products to our licensees through contracts that may not be secured by collateral or other security. Accordingly, we bear the risk if our licensees are unable to pay amounts due to us thereunder. Due to volatility in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or licensees. If such third parties are unable to pay amounts owed to us or satisfy their commitments to us, or if there are reductions in the availability or extent of reimbursement available to us, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Currency exchange rates may affect revenues and expenses.. We conduct a large portion of our business in international markets. For example, we derive a majority of our RISPERDAL CONSTA revenues and all of our FAMPYRA, XEPLION and TREVICTA revenues from sales in countries other than the U.S., and these sales are denominated in non-U.S. dollar (\"USD\") currencies. We also incur substantial operating costs in Ireland and face exposure to changes in the exchange ratio of the USD and the Euro arising from expenses and payables at our Irish operations that are settled in Euro. Our efforts to mitigate the impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, USD, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our results of operations, often in unpredictable ways. Refer to \"Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" for additional information relating to our foreign currency exchange rate risk.. We may not be able to attract and retain our key personnel.. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, manufacturing, management, regulatory compliance and selling and marketing personnel. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have technical, scientific, manufacturing, management, regulatory compliance or commercial backgrounds could materially adversely affect our research and development efforts and our business.. Future transactions may harm our business or the market price of our ordinary shares.. We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies, products or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. These transactions could include:. <U+25CF>mergers;. <U+25CF>acquisitions;. <U+25CF>strategic alliances;. <U+25CF>licensing agreements; and. <U+25CF>co-promotion agreements.. We may choose to enter into one or more of these transactions at any time, which may cause substantial fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may experience a charge to earnings, which could also materially adversely affect our results of operations and could harm the market price of our ordinary shares.. 45. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties that we acquire, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Merger and acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including:. <U+25CF>uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, the respective parties;. <U+25CF>the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business;. <U+25CF>the consummation of financing transactions, acquisitions or dispositions and the related effects on our business;. <U+25CF>the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and within the timeframe predicted;. <U+25CF>problems that could arise from the integration of the respective businesses, including the application of internal control processes to the acquired business;. <U+25CF>difficulties that could be encountered in managing international operations; and. <U+25CF>unanticipated changes in business, industry, market or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction.. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated from a transaction. Moreover, any acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur additional indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. Future acquisitions could also result in our assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous acquisitions.. If goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings.. At December 31, 2017, we have $256.2 million of amortizable intangible assets and $92.9 million of goodwill. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (\"GAAP\"), we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite - lived intangible assets have been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods.. Our effective tax rate may increase.. As a global biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to taxation in a number of different jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these places. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the distribution of our profits or losses between the jurisdictions where we operate and differences in interpretation of tax laws. In addition, the tax laws of any jurisdiction in which we operate may change in the future, which could impact our effective tax rate. Tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate may audit us. If we are unsuccessful in defending any tax positions adopted in our submitted tax returns, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our deferred tax assets may not be realized.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $98.5 million in net deferred tax assets in the U.S. Included in this amount is approximately $52.0 million of research and development tax credit carryforwards that can be used to offset federal tax in future periods.  These carryforwards will expire within the next twenty years, with the earliest expiration occurring in 2020. It is possible that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, especially if we incur losses in the U.S. in the future.  Losses may arise from unforeseen operating events (see \" - We may not become profitable on a sustained basis\" for additional information relating to operating losses)  or the occurrence of significant excess tax benefits arising from the exercise of stock options and/or the vesting of  restricted stock units. Unless we are able to generate sufficient taxable income in the future, a substantial valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of our U.S. deferred tax assets may be required, which would materially increase our expenses in the period the allowance is recognized and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents. The business combination of Alkermes, Inc. and the drug technology business (\"EDT\") of Elan Corporation, plc may limit our ability to use our tax attributes to offset taxable income, if any, generated from such business combination.. On September 16, 2011, the businesses of Alkermes, Inc. and EDT were combined under Alkermes plc (this combination is referred to as the \"Business Combination\"). For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered tax resident in the place of its incorporation. Because we are incorporated in Ireland, we should be deemed an Irish corporation under these general rules. However, Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") generally provides that a corporation organized outside the U.S. that acquires substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the U.S. will be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring foreign corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation, and the \"expanded affiliated group\" (as defined in Section 7874) that includes the acquiring corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which it is organized.. In addition, Section 7874 provides that if a corporation organized outside the U.S. acquires substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the U.S., the taxable income of the U.S. corporation during the period beginning on the date the first assets are acquired as part of the acquisition, through the date which is ten years after the last date assets are acquired as part of the acquisition, shall be no less than the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer during such period or by reason of a license of property by the expatriated entity after such acquisition to a foreign affiliate during such period, which is referred to as the \"inversion gain,\" if shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation own at least 60% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring foreign corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation, and the \"expanded affiliated group\" of the acquiring corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which it is organized.  If this rule was to apply to the Business Combination, among other things, Alkermes, Inc. would have been restricted in its ability to use the approximately $274.0 million of U.S. federal net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards and $38.0 million of U.S. state NOL carryforwards that it had as of March 31, 2011.  We do not believe that either of these limitations should apply as a result of the Business Combination. However, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") could assert a contrary position, in which case we could become involved in tax controversy with the IRS regarding possible additional U.S. tax liability. If we were to be unsuccessful in resolving any such tax controversy in our favor, we could be liable for significantly greater U.S. federal and state income tax than we anticipate being liable for through the Business Combination, which would place further demands on our cash needs.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders.. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last few years. If faced with a proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to the contest, which would be disruptive to our business. Even if we are successful, our business could be adversely affected by a proxy contest involving us because:. <U+25CF>responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting operations and diverting the attention of management and employees, and can lead to uncertainty;. <U+25CF>perceived uncertainties as to future direction may result in the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or in-licensing opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. <U+25CF>if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our strategic plan in a timely manner and create additional value for our shareholders.. These actions could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to experience periods of volatility.. If any of our licensees undergoes a change in control or in management, this may adversely affect revenues from our products.. Any change of control, or change in management, of our licensees may result in a reprioritization of our product within such licensee's portfolio, or such licensee may fail to maintain the financial or other resources necessary to continue the development and/or commercialization of such product.. 47. Table of Contents. If any of our licensees undergoes a change of control and the acquirer either is unable to perform such licensee's obligations under its agreements with us or has a product that competes with ours that such acquirer does not divest, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and partners, as well as personally identifiable information of patients, clinical trial participants and employees. Similarly, our partners and third-party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Certain types of information technology or infrastructure attacks or breaches may go undetected for a prolonged period of time. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, including our data being breached at our partners or third-party providers, could result in legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to numerous and varying privacy and security laws, and our failure to comply could result in penalties and reputational damage.. We are subject to laws and regulations covering data privacy and the protection of personal information, including health information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues which may affect our business. In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal information. Each of these laws is subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HIPAA.. Numerous other countries have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well. The EC and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EC adopted the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU member states, which imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Data protection authorities from different EU member states have interpreted the privacy laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised.  In 2016, the EU formally adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which will apply in all EU member states effective May 25, 2018 and will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive effective on that date. The GDPR introduces new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The GDPR will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new EU data protection rules. Any failure to comply with the rules arising from the EU Data Protection Directive, the GDPR, and related national laws of EU member states,  could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors.. 48. Table of Contents. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our ordinary shares could be negatively affected.. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, the Nasdaq or other regulatory authorities."
