[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect our business and an investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and our business. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the value of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to our Business. Our business concentration in Texas, specifically in the Houston metropolitan area, imposes risks and may magnify the consequences of any regional or local economic downturn affecting Houston, including any downturn in the energy or real estate sectors.. We conduct our operations almost exclusively in the Houston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2017, the substantial majority of the loans in our loan portfolio were made to borrowers who live and/or conduct business in Texas, and specifically, in the Houston metropolitan area, and the substantial majority of our secured loans were secured by collateral located in the Houston metropolitan area. Accordingly, we are significantly exposed to risks associated with a lack of geographic diversification. The economic conditions in the Houston metropolitan area are dependent on the energy sector generally and the price of oil and gas specifically. Any downturn or adverse development in the energy sector or continued low oil or gas prices could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Adverse economic developments, among other things, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets and charge-offs, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects the Houston metropolitan area or Texas more generally, or our existing borrowers, prospective borrowers or property values in the Company's market area may affect our profitability more significantly and more adversely than those of our competitors with operations that are less geographically concentrated in the same area.. We may not be able to implement aspects of our growth strategy, which may affect our ability to maintain our historical earnings trends.. The Company's growth strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by strategic acquisitions. The Company may not be able to execute on aspects of its growth strategy to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. More specifically, the Company may not be able to generate sufficient new loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances, obtain the personnel or funding necessary for additional growth or find suitable acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions, in particular, the volatility of oil and gas prices and competition, may impede or prohibit the growth of the Company's. 14. operations, the opening of new branches and the consummation of additional acquisitions. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its growth. The success of the Company's growth strategy also depends on its ability to effectively manage growth, which is dependent upon a number of factors, including the Company's ability to adapt its existing credit, operational, technology and governance infrastructure to accommodate expanded operations. If the Company fails to implement one or more aspects of its growth strategy, the Company may be unable to maintain its historical earnings trends, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key individuals to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our continued success depends in large part upon the skills, experience and continued service of our executive management team and Board of Directors. Our goals, strategies and continued growth are closely tied to the strengths and banking philosophy of our executive management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George Martinez, and our President, Steven F. Retzloff. Successful implementation of our business strategy is also dependent in part on the continued service of our bank office presidents. The community involvement and diverse and extensive local business relationships and experience in the Houston market of our officers in the Houston metropolitan area are important to our success. The loss of services of any of these key personnel in the future could have a negative impact on our business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel who are experienced in the specialized aspects of our business or who have ties to the communities within our market area. Currently, it is generally our policy not to have employment agreements with our officers. While the Company does not anticipate any changes in our executive management team, the unexpected loss of any of these members of management could have a material adverse effect on the Company and our ability to implement our business strategy.. Our ability to retain bankers and recruit additional successful bankers is critical to the success of our business strategy and any failure to do so could impair our customer relationships and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our ability to retain and grow our loans, deposits and fee income depends upon the business generation capabilities, reputation and the relationship management skills of our lenders. If we were to lose the services of any of our bankers, including successful bankers employed by an acquired bank, to a competitor or otherwise, the Company may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our customers could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services.. Our success and growth strategy also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain experienced loan officers and support staff, as well as other management personnel. The Company may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining lenders and other personnel of our desired caliber, including as a result of competition from other financial institutions. Competition for loan officers and other personnel is strong and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel it requires. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Additionally, the Company may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development before it is able to determine whether a new loan officer will be profitable or effective. If we are unable to attract and retain successful loan officers and other personnel, or if our loan officers and other personnel fail to meet our expectations in terms of customer relationships and profitability, we may be unable to execute our business strategy and our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be negatively affected.. A key piece of our strategic growth plan involves decision-making authority at the bank office level, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be negatively affected if our local teams do not follow our internal policies or are negligent in their decision-making.. We attract and retain our management talent by empowering them to make certain business decisions on a local level. Lending authorities are assigned to bank office presidents and their banking teams based on their level of experience. Additionally, all loan relationships in excess of internal specified maximums are reviewed by the Bank's Senior Loan Committee, comprised of senior management of the Bank, or the Bank's Board of Directors, as the case may be. Our local lenders may not follow our internal procedures or otherwise act in our best interests with respect to our decision-making. A failure of our employees to follow our internal policies, or actions taken by our employees that are negligent, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 15. Our strategic growth plan, which includes pursuing acquisitions, could expose the Company to financial, execution and operational risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Company has acquired two financial institutions and intends to continue to pursue a strategy that includes future acquisitions. An acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including the following:. • discovering proper candidates for acquisition;. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management's attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, compliance and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. • conducting adequate due diligence and managing known and unknown risks and uncertainties;. • obtaining necessary regulatory approvals;. • integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses, thereby creating an adverse short-term effect on results of operations;. • attracting and retaining qualified management and key personnel, including lenders;. • maintaining asset quality;. • attracting and retaining customers;. • attracting funding to support additional growth within acceptable risk tolerances; and. • maintaining adequate regulatory capital.. The market for acquisition targets is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to find acquisition candidates that fit our strategy and standards. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition targets, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties, such as unknown or contingent liabilities with no available manner of recourse, exposure to unexpected problems such as asset quality, the retention of key employees and customers and other issues that could negatively affect our business. Acquisitions of financial institutions are also subject to regulatory approvals that can result in delays, in some cases, for a lengthy period of time. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions or, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, technology platforms, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires or effectively eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from our management that would otherwise be directed toward servicing existing business and developing new business. Further, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisition, and the goodwill that the Company currently maintains or may recognize in connection with future transactions may be subject to impairment in future periods.. Challenging market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected the banking industry and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are a business operating in the challenging and uncertain financial services environment. The success of our business and operations is sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and locally in our industry and market. If the U.S. economy weakens and a lack of growth in population, income levels, deposits and business investment in our local market occurs, our growth and profitability from our lending, deposit and asset management services could be constrained. Although economic conditions have improved in recent years, financial institutions continue to be affected by volatility in the real estate market in some parts of the country and uncertain regulatory and interest rate conditions. The Company has direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate market in Texas, particularly in the Houston metropolitan area, and could be affected by these events.. Uncertain market and economic conditions can make our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and estimate the losses in our loan portfolio more complex. Another national economic recession or continued deterioration of conditions in our market could. 16. drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business:. • loan delinquencies may rise:. • nonperforming assets and foreclosures may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decline; and. • collateral securing our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, which could reduce customers' borrowing power and repayment ability.. Low or volatile oil and gas prices could have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the Houston metropolitan area specifically. Declines in real estate values, declines in the volume of home sales and financial stress on borrowers as a result of low oil and gas prices, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Company lends to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The Company focuses our business development and marketing strategy primarily on small to medium-sized businesses, which the Company categorizes as commercial borrowing relationships of less than $5 million of exposure. The Company had loans totaling approximately $1.6 billion to small to medium-sized businesses, or 70.5%, of our total loans, as of December 31, 2017 and $1.34 billion, or 70.6%, of our total loans as of December 31, 2016. Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have a smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management skills, talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have a material adverse impact on the business and our ability to repay our loan. If general economic conditions negatively impact the Houston metropolitan area or Texas and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected, or our borrowers are otherwise affected by adverse business developments, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings may be affected.. The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable incurred loan losses. The Company establishes our allowance for loan losses and maintains it at a level management considers adequate to absorb probable incurred loan losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to us, such as past loan loss experience, the nature and volume of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations and estimated collateral values, economic conditions and other factors. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited back to the allowance. Our allowance for loan losses consists of a general component based upon probable incurred but unidentified losses in the portfolio and a specific component based on individual loans that are considered impaired. In determining the collectability of certain loans, management also considers the fair value of any underlying collateral. The amount ultimately realized may differ from the carrying value of these assets because of economic, operating or other conditions beyond our control, and any such differences may be material.. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was $23.6 million, which represents 1.04% of our total loans and 177.44% of our total nonperforming loans. As of December 31, 2016, our allowance for loan losses was $17.9 million, which represented 0.95% of our total loans and 107.26% of our total nonperforming loans as of the same date. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has previously experienced. We may be required to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, either due to management's decision to do so or as required by our banking regulators. In addition, federal and state bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize future charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of a particular borrower or our entire loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, accounting rule changes (like those related to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's rules regarding. 17. accounting for current expected credit losses that are not yet effective) and other factors, both within and outside of our management's control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The acquisition method of accounting requires that acquired loans are initially recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition, which includes an estimate of loan losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans, and therefore no corresponding allowance for loan losses is recorded for these loans at acquisition because credit quality, among other elements, was considered in the determination of fair value. To the extent that our estimates of fair value are too high, it will incur losses associated with the acquired loans.. As a significant percentage of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate loans, an adverse change in the economic conditions of the real estate market where the Company operates could affect real estate values and may result in losses to our business.. As of December 31, 2017, $1.73 billion, or 76.4%, of our total loans was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value over the term of the loan, limiting our ability to realize the full value of the collateral anticipated at the time of the originating loan. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of our business.  In addition, the volatility of the real estate market may result in a lower valuation at the time collateral is put on the market for sale. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans. Such declines and losses in real estate values may cause the Company to experience increases in provisions for loan losses and charge-offs, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Our commercial real estate and construction, land development and other land loan portfolios expose it to credit risks that may be greater than the risks related to other types of loans.. As of December 31, 2017, $1.08 billion, or 47.5%, of our total loans was comprised of commercial real estate loans (including owner-occupied commercial real estate loans) and $243.4 million, or 10.7%, of our total loans was comprised of construction, land development and other land loans. Commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Repayment of these loans is typically dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. The availability of such income for repayment may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. These loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by other types of collateral because the collateral securing these loans is typically more difficult to liquidate due to the fluctuation of real estate values. Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our commercial real estate loan portfolio could require the Company to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Real estate construction, land development and other similar land loans involve risks attributable to the fact that loan funds are secured by a project under construction, and the project is of uncertain value prior to our completion. These risks include:. • the viability of the contractor:. • the value of the project being subject to successful completion;. • the contractor's ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within our estimates; and. • concentration of such loans with a single contractor and our affiliates.. Real estate construction lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan and also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, it may be unable to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan. In addition, the Company may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. A large portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans secured by receivables, inventory, equipment or other commercial collateral, the deterioration in value of which could increase the potential for future losses.. As of December 31, 2017, $457.1 million, or 20.1%, of our total loans was comprised of commercial and industrial loans that are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the borrower's business itself and these loans are typically larger in amount, which creates the potential for larger losses on a single loan basis. Commercial and industrial loans are collateralized by general business assets including, among other things, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment and are generally backed by a personal guaranty of the borrower or principal. This collateral may decline in value more rapidly than the Company anticipates, exposing it to increased credit risk. In addition, a portion of our customer base, including customers in the energy and real estate business, may be in industries which are particularly sensitive to commodity prices or market fluctuations, such as energy and real estate prices. Accordingly, negative changes in commodity prices and real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of the collateral securing these loans. Significant adverse changes in the economy or local market conditions in which our commercial lending customers operate could cause rapid declines in loan collectability and the values associated with general business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose the Company to credit losses and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect our operations and jeopardize its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business. The Company relies on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that the Company has adequate liquidity to fund its operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of our investment securities, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds is deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments such as money market funds, the Company would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities and proceeds from the issuance and sale of our equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by our ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Federal Home Loan Bank (the \"FHLB\") and our ability to raise brokered deposits. The Company also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to the Company, could be impaired by factors that affect it directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Our access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the economy of the Houston metropolitan area or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against the Company.. As of December 31, 2017, $769.6 million, or 34.8%, of our deposits consisted of interest-bearing demand deposits and money market and savings accounts. Based on our experience, the Company believes that our deposit accounts are relatively stable sources of funds. If the Company increases interest rates paid to retain deposits, our earnings may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need to raise additional capital, in the form of additional debt or equity, in the future to have sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and fund our business needs and future growth, particularly if the quality of our assets or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition. Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital or make such capital only available on unfavorable terms, including interbank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets or other disruption in capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial. 19. institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our earnings and capital levels and overall results of operations.. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income, or the difference between the interest income the Company earns on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, and the interest expense the Company pays on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve or otherwise, can have a significant effect on our net interest income. The majority of our banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income.. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, adversely affect the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect the Company through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage backed securities portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan portfolio and our overall results.. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including various governmental and regulatory monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Adverse changes in the Federal Reserve interest rate policies or other changes in monetary policies and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company. The Company may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of those changes or how and to what extent they may affect our business. The Company also may not be able to adequately prepare for or compensate for the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates or adjust for the consequences of these changes may adversely affect our earnings, capital levels and overall results.. The Company could recognize losses on securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate.. The Company invests in available for sale securities with the primary objectives of providing a source of liquidity, providing an appropriate return on funds invested, managing interest rate risk, meeting pledging requirements and meeting regulatory capital requirements. As of December 31, 2017, the amortized cost of our securities portfolio was $309.1 million, which represented 10.8% of total assets. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual borrowers with respect to the underlying securities and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, the Company may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the goodwill that the Company has recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets the Company acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if a triggering event occurs which indicates that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. 20. The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $39.4 million. While the Company has not recorded any impairment charges since it initially recorded the goodwill, our future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces strong competition to attract and retain customers from other companies that offer banking services, which could impact our business by preventing it from obtaining customers and adversely affecting our future growth and profitability.. The Company conducts our operations almost exclusively in the Houston metropolitan area. Many of our competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking services within this market area. These competitors include banks with nationwide operations, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings banks, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, asset-based non-bank lenders and certain other non-financial entities, such as retail stores that may maintain their own credit programs and certain governmental organizations that may offer more favorable financing or deposit terms than the Company can. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices, or otherwise solicit deposits, in our market area. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. In addition, as customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the internet and for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits, as well as reduced net interest margin, fee income and profitability. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. • the ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. • the rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to our competitors;. • customer satisfaction with our level of service;. • the ability to expand our market position; and. • industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our market is susceptible to weather events and other catastrophes that could have an adverse impact on our market's economy, our operations or our customers, any of which could have a negative effect on us.. Our business is generated primarily from the Houston metropolitan area, which is susceptible to damage by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts and other natural disasters and adverse weather.  These catastrophic events can disrupt our operations, cause widespread property damage, and severely depress the local economy in which we operate. In August 2017, our market area experienced catastrophic flooding and unprecedented storm damage due to Hurricane Harvey. The effect of Hurricane Harvey, and other catastrophic weather events if they were to occur, could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and business, as well as potentially increase our exposure to credit losses and liquidity risks. If our market experiences an overall decline as a result of a catastrophic event, demand for loans and our other products and services could be reduced. In addition, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses within our loan portfolio may increase substantially, as uninsured property losses or sustained job interruption or loss may materially impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans could be materially and adversely affected by a catastrophic event. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event could, therefore, result in decreased revenue and increased loan losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Negative public opinion regarding the Company or failure to maintain our reputation in the community that the Company serves could adversely affect our business and prevent it from growing our business.. As a community bank, our reputation within the community it serves is critical to our success. The Company has set itself apart from our competitors by building strong personal and professional relationships with our customers and by our management and employees being active members of the communities the Company serves. As such, the Company strives to enhance our reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities it serves and delivering superior service to our customers. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, the Company may be less successful in attracting new customers, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Further, negative public opinion can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action as the Company seeks to implement our growth strategy. While the Company actively works to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business.. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, the Company may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Ensuring that the Company has adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal controls over financial reporting, in place so that the Company can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is costly and time-consuming and needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on our system of internal control. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"). As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. In particular, we are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, unless we remain an emerging growth company and elect additional transitional relief available to emerging growth companies, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, if we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when required, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely. As a result, investors, counterparties and customers may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports; our liquidity, access to capital markets and perceptions of our creditworthiness could be adversely affected; and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical recordkeeping errors and transactional errors. Our business is dependent on our employees as well as third-party service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. The Company could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems or if one of our third-party service providers experiences an operational breakdown or failure. Employee errors and employee or customer misconduct could subject the Company to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from the Company, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject the Company to financial claims for negligence.. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud, as well as insurance coverage designed to protect the Company from material losses associated with these risks including losses resulting from any associated business interruption. However, if our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. In addition, when the Company originates loans, it relies upon information supplied by loan applicants and third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal and title information, if applicable, and employment and income documentation provided by third parties. If any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of the Company to operate our business, potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company has a continuing need for technological change, and it may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or the Company may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology.. The financial services industry is changing rapidly, and to remain competitive, the Company must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of its products, services and technologies. In addition to better serving our customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, at least in part, upon our ability to respond to future technological changes and the ability to address the needs of our customers. We address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our products and service offerings. The Company may experience operational challenges as it implements these new technology enhancements or products, which could result in the Company not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require the Company to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner. We intend to convert our core technology platform in 2018. Complications during the conversion could negatively impact the experiences or satisfaction of our customers, which could cause those customers to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the amount of business that they do with us, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Third parties upon which we rely for our technology needs may not be able to develop on a cost-effective basis systems that will enable us to keep pace with such developments. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products compared to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may lose customers seeking new technology-driven products and services to the extent we are unable to provide such products and services. Accordingly, the ability to keep pace with technological change is important and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty or terminate their services.. The Company depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, the Company receives certain third-party services including, but not limited to, core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, our online banking services, deposit processing and other processing services. While the Company has selected these third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any complications caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, particularly on a timely basis, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if the Company were able to replace third-party service providers, it may be at a higher cost to the Company, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses.. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure, including our digital, mobile and internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability, damage our reputation and inhibit the use of our internet banking services by current and potential customers. We regularly add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to. 23. mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches, including firewalls and penetration testing. However, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies as well as acts of cyber-crime. Increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a system breach. Controls employed by our information technology department and cloud vendors could prove inadequate. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information and any violation of these laws or another incident involving personal, confidential or proprietary information of individuals could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (a) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (b) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (c) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs.. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under personal information laws and regulations. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Security breaches at third parties may adversely affect our business.. Our customers interact with their own and other third-party systems, which pose operational risks to us. The Company may be adversely affected by data breaches at retailers and other third parties who maintain data relating to our customers that involve the theft of customer data, including the theft of customers' debit card, wire transfer and other identifying and/or access information used to make purchases or payments at such retailers and to other third parties. Despite third-party security risks that are beyond our control, the Company provides certain protections against fraud and attendant losses for unauthorized use of debit cards in order to stay competitive in the marketplace. Offering such protection to customers exposes us to significant expenses and potential losses related to reimbursing our customers for fraud losses, reissuing the compromised cards and increased monitoring for suspicious activity. In the event of a data breach at one or more retailers of considerable magnitude, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the real properties we own and the foreclosure on real estate assets securing our loan portfolio.. In the course of our business, we may acquire real estate in connection with our growth efforts, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate or otherwise be deemed to be in control of property that serves as collateral on loans we make. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties. 24. for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.. The cost of removal or abatement may substantially exceed the value of the affected properties or the loans secured by those properties, we may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and we may not be able to resell the affected properties either before or after completion of any such removal or abatement procedures. Furthermore, the value of the property as collateral will generally be substantially reduced or we may elect not to foreclose on the property and, as a result, we may suffer a loss upon collection of the loan. Any significant environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to our Industry and Regulation. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment for bank holding companies and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles or changes in any of them.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are not intended to protect our shareholders. Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the FDIC's DIF and the overall financial stability of the U.S. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which the Company can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that the Bank can pay to the Company, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements on the Company that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP would require. Compliance with these laws and regulations is difficult and costly, and changes to these laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith efforts to comply or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject the Company to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive.. State and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which it is or becomes subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect the Company.. Texas and federal banking agencies, including the TDB and the Federal Reserve, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a Texas or federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company, the Bank or their respective management were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our and/or the Bank's capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against the Company, the Bank or their respective officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank's deposit insurance. If the Company becomes subject to such regulatory actions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation may be negatively impacted.. The Company may be unable to identify and consummate our new activities and expansion plans and successfully implement our growth strategy, which will require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth.. The Company intends to continue to grow our business through strategic acquisitions of financial institutions coupled with organic growth. Generally, the Company must receive state and federal regulatory approval before it can acquire an FDIC-insured depository institution or related business. In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, our financial condition, liquidity, our future prospects and the impact of the proposal on U.S. financial stability. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and our record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA) and the effectiveness of the. 25. acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to the Company, or at all, or may be granted only after lengthy delay. The Company may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which may not be acceptable to the Company or, if acceptable to the Company, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, the Company plans to continue de novo branching as a part of our organic growth strategy. De novo branching and any acquisitions carry with them numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches may impact our business plans and restrict our growth.. The Company faces a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (\"U.S. Treasury\") to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements, and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"Department of Justice\"), Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions programs and rules administered and enforced by OFAC.. The Company provides banking services to customers located outside the United States, primarily in Guatemala. These banking services are primarily deposit accounts, including checking, money market and short term certificates of deposit. As of December 31, 2017, our deposits from foreign nationals, primarily residents of Guatemala, accounted for less than 6% of our total deposits.. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, the Company has dedicated significant resources to our anti-money laundering program. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, the Company could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plans, including acquisitions and de novo branching. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. We are subject to numerous federal and state lending laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material sanctions and penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.. The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings.. As a result of historical economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC's current DIF restoration plan is designed to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020.  At least semi-annually, the FDIC updates our loss and income projections for the fund and, if needed, increases or decreases assessment rates. If any required increase is insufficient for the DIF to meet our funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures that affect the DIF, the Company may be required to pay FDIC premiums higher than current levels. Our regulatory assessments and FDIC insurance costs were $2.3 million compared with $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. The Federal Reserve may require the Company to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. A bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support our subsidiary banks. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. Under these requirements, in the future, the Company could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank if it experiences financial distress.. A capital injection may be required at times when Company resources are limited and the Company may be required to borrow the funds to make the required capital injection. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of any note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the soundness, creditworthiness and liquidity of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional customers. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or customer. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the U.S. money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of both the discount rate and the federal funds rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Although the Company cannot determine the effects of such policies on it at this time, such policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Allegiance's Common Stock. The market price of Allegiance's common stock could be volatile and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause the value of an investment in Allegiance's common stock to decline.. The market price of Allegiance's common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including, but not limited to:. • general economic conditions and overall market fluctuations;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to ours;. • the perception that investment in Texas is unattractive or less attractive during periods of low oil prices;. • announcements by the Company or our competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions, innovations or new programs and services;. • the public reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. 27. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts following Allegiance's stock, or the failure of securities analysts to cover Allegiance's common stock;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the trading volume of Allegiance's common stock;. • changes in governmental monetary policies, including the policies of the Federal Reserve;. • changes in business, legal or regulatory conditions, or other developments affecting participants in our industry, and publicity regarding our business or any of our significant customers or competitors;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and. • future sales of Allegiance's common stock by the Company, directors, executives and significant shareholders.. The realization of any of the risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section could have a material adverse effect on the market price of Allegiance's common stock and cause the value of an investment in Allegiance's common stock to decline. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect investor confidence and could affect the trading price of Allegiance's common stock over the short, medium or long term, regardless of our actual performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If the Company were to be involved in a class action lawsuit, the Company could incur substantial costs and it could divert the attention of senior management and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention.. As a public company, Allegiance faces increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses that the Company did not incur as a private company, particularly after Allegiance is no longer an emerging growth company. As a public company, Allegiance is required to:. • prepare and distribute periodic reports, proxy statements and other shareholder communications in compliance with the federal securities laws and rules;. • expand the roles and duties of Allegiance's Board of Directors and committees thereof;. • maintain an internal audit function;. • institute more comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance procedures;. • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above;. • enhance Allegiance's investor relations function;. • establish new internal policies, including those relating to trading in our securities and disclosure controls and procedures;. • retain additional personnel;. • comply with The NASDAQ Stock Market listing standards; and. • comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. Allegiance expects these rules and regulations and changes in laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, which have created uncertainty for public companies, to increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly relative to when Allegiance was not a public company. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our investment in compliance with existing and evolving regulatory requirements will result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These increased costs may require the Company to divert a significant amount of money that it could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve ourstrategic objectives.. 28. Allegiance may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire it or could otherwise adversely affect the rights of the holders of Allegiance's common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation authorizes it to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of one or more series of preferred stock. Allegiance's Board of Directors, in our sole discretion, has the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series, the designation of such series, and the dividend rate for each series, without any further vote or action by Allegiance's shareholders. Allegiance's preferred stock may be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of Allegiance's common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, discouraging bids for Allegiance's common stock at a premium over the market price, and materially adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of Allegiance's common stock.. Allegiance currently has no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, so holders of Allegiance's common stock may not receive funds without selling their common stock.. The Company has not paid dividends on our common stock in the past, and does not anticipate paying any dividends on Allegiance's common stock in the foreseeable future. Allegiance's ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to it, which is limited by applicable laws and banking regulations. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of Allegiance's Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. In addition, Allegiance's existing credit agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends.. Allegiance is dependent upon the Bank for cash flow, and the Bank's ability to make cash distributions is restricted, which could impact Allegiance's ability to satisfy our obligations.. Allegiance's primary tangible asset is the Bank. As such, Allegiance depends upon the Bank for cash distributions (through dividends on the Bank's stock) that Allegiance uses to pay our operating expenses and satisfy our obligations, including debt obligations. There are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit the Bank's ability to pay dividends to Allegiance. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Allegiance, it will not be able to satisfy our obligations. These statutes and regulations require, among other things, that the Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend. Further, federal and state banking authorities have the ability to restrict the Bank's payment of dividends through supervisory action.. Allegiance's corporate governance documents and certain corporate and banking provisions of Texas law applicable to the Company could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition of the Company and other actions.. Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation and bylaws contain certain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include:. • staggered terms for directors, who may be removed from office only for cause;. • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals; and. • a provision that any special meeting of Allegiance's shareholders may be called only by a majority of the Board of Directors, the President or a holder or group of holders of at least 50% of Allegiance shares entitled to vote at the meeting.. Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation does not provide for cumulative voting for directors and authorizes the Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of Allegiance's preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a controlling interest in Allegiance. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision that restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control.. 29. In addition, banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect \"control\" of an FDIC-insured depository institution. These laws include the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. These laws could delay or prevent an acquisition.. Furthermore, Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation provides that the state and federal courts located in Harris County, Texas, the county in which the City of Houston lies, will be the exclusive forum for: (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on Allegiance's behalf; (b) any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; (c) any action asserting a claim against the Company arising pursuant to the Texas Business Organizations Code, Allegiance's certificate of formation, or Allegiance's bylaws; or (d) any action asserting a claim against Allegiance that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Shareholders of Allegiance are deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation related to choice of forum. The choice of forum provision in Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation may limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with Allegiance. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in Allegiance's amended and restated certificate of formation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, Allegiance may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm Allegiance's business, operating results and financial condition.. Shareholders may be deemed to be acting in concert or otherwise in control of Allegiance, which could impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements and result in adverse regulatory consequences for such holders.. Allegiance is a bank holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve. Banking laws impose notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements on any shareholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect \"control\" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or a company that controls an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as a bank holding company. These laws include the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act. The determination whether an investor \"controls\" a depository institution or holding company is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment.. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party (1) owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock of the bank or other company, (2) controls the election of a majority of the directors of the bank or other company or (3) has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or other company. In addition, subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. \"Acting in concert\" generally means knowing participation in a joint activity or parallel action towards the common goal of acquiring control of a bank or a parent company, whether or not pursuant to an express agreement. The manner in which this definition is applied in individual circumstances can vary and cannot always be predicted with certainty. Any shareholder that is deemed to \"control\" Allegiance for regulatory purposes would become subject to notice, approval and ongoing regulatory requirements and may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences. Potential investors are advised to consult with their legal counsel regarding the applicable regulations and requirements.. An investment in Allegiance's common stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC, so investors could lose some or all of their investment.. An investment in Allegiance's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in Allegiance's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described herein. As a result, investors could lose some or all of their investment."
