[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Readers should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.. Risks Related to Allegiant. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or restrictions affecting aircraft in our fleet.. As of February 2, 2018, our operating fleet consists of 37 MD-80 series aircraft and 53 Airbus A320 series aircraft, of which all but 10 were acquired used. Our used aircraft range from 11 to 32 years from their manufacture date at February 2, 2018.. An accident involving one of our aircraft, even if fully insured, could result in public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. Further, there is no assurance that the amount of insurance we carry would be sufficient to protect us from material loss. Because we are smaller than most airlines, an accident would likely adversely affect us to a greater degree than a larger, more established airline.. In-flight emergencies affecting our aircraft, and resulting media attention, could also contribute to a public perception regarding safety concerns and a loss of business.. The FAA could suspend or restrict the use of our aircraft in the event of actual or perceived mechanical problems or safety issues while it conducts its own investigation, whether involving our aircraft or another U.S. or foreign airline's aircraft. Our business could also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the aircraft we utilize because of safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving these aircraft.. A breach in the security of personal data could severely damage our reputation, cause considerable additional costs and result in regulatory penalties.. We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our customers. Our on-line operations also rely on the secure transmission of this customer data. We use third-party systems, software, and tools in order to protect the customer data we obtain through the course of our business. Although we use these security measures to protect this customer information, a compromise of our physical or network security systems through a cyber-security attack would create the risk that our customers' personal information might be obtained by unauthorized persons. A compromise in our security systems could adversely affect our reputation, which could impact customers' willingness to do business with us using credit or debit cards,  disrupt operations, and could also result in litigation or the imposition of penalties. In addition, it could be costly to remediate.. The way businesses handle customer data is subject to increasing legislation and regulation typically intended to protect the privacy of customer data received, retained, and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with existing rules or practices, or if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices. These privacy developments are difficult to anticipate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Increases in taxes could impact demand for our services.. In 2018, Congress may consider legislation that could increase the amount of Federal Excise Tax and/or one or more of the other government fees imposed on air travel. By increasing the overall price charged to passengers, any additional taxes or fees could lessen the demand for air travel or force carriers to lower fares to maintain demand. Increased taxes and fees per passenger may impact our load factors more than other airlines as our lower fares are designed to stimulate demand for our services.. The successful development of a resort is dependent on commercial and economic factors, some of which are beyond our control.. We have announced the development of a hotel-condo resort in Southwest Florida with construction expected to begin in mid-2018 and completion of the hotel and initial condo tower(s) expected in late 2019 or early 2020. The successful development of the project will be subject to various risks inherent in construction projects (such as securing sufficient financing on a timely basis, cost overruns and construction delays) as well as risks of gaining sufficient interest from purchasers. 14. of the condo units at the prices we envision, the desirability of the project's location, competition and the ability to profitably operate the hotel and related offerings once open.. The acceleration of the retirement of our MD-80 fleet will put pressure on our fleet induction team to complete the fleet transition on a timely basis.. Although we have been able to successfully add 28 Airbus aircraft to our operating fleet during 2016 and 2017, the accelerated retirement of our MD-80 fleet per our fleet transition plan contemplates placing into service an additional 30 Airbus aircraft through the end of 2018. Most of these aircraft are used and they will come from different sources. This is a significant undertaking which will require operational efficiency to accomplish on a timely basis. If we are unable to complete these inductions as contemplated, the fleet replacement plan could be delayed which could increase costs or impact revenues.. Our plan to retire our older fleet types will limit our growth until replacement and additional aircraft are added to our operating fleet.. Our current fleet plan calls for the retirement of all of our MD-80 aircraft by the end of 2018. The retirement of these aircraft will limit our network growth until such time as we have replaced these aircraft and added additional Airbus aircraft for service growth. If we are unable to close on Airbus aircraft now under contract, accept delivery of them, and induct them into service when needed to replace aircraft being retired, we may be limited in our ability to significantly grow revenues and profitability in the interim.. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business.. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our air reservation system, telecommunication systems, our website, and other automated systems. Our continuing initiatives to enhance the capabilities of our automated systems could increase the risk of automation failures. Any failure by us to handle our automation needs could negatively affect our internet sales (on which we rely heavily) and customer service, and result in lost revenues and increased costs.. Our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver necessary functionality to support our operations. Our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters, telecommunications failures, malware, ransom ware, security breaches or cyber-security attacks. Although we have implemented security measures, have information systems disaster recovery plans in place and carry cyber-security insurance, we cannot assure investors that these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions or that the insurance would cover all losses. Substantial or repeated website, reservations system, or telecommunication system failures could decrease the attractiveness of our services. Any disruption to these systems could result in the loss of important data and revenue, increase in expenses, and harm to our business.. Increases in fuel prices or unavailability of fuel would harm our business and profitability.. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing 26.9 percent, 25.9 percent and 31.3 percent during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Significant increases in fuel costs have negatively affected our operating results in the past, and future fuel cost volatility could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Both the cost and availability of aircraft fuel are subject to many economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world over which we have no control. Meteorological events may also result in short-term disruptions in the fuel supply. Aircraft fuel availability is also subject to periods of market surplus and shortage, and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline, and other petroleum products. Due to the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, our ability to control this cost is limited, and the price and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Due to the high percentage of our operating costs represented by fuel, a relatively small increase in the price of fuel could have a significantly negative impact on our operating costs. A fuel supply shortage or higher fuel prices could result in reduction of our service during the period affected.. We have made a business decision not to purchase financial derivatives to hedge against increases in the cost of fuel. This decision may make our operating results more vulnerable to the impact of fuel price increases.. 15. Increased labor costs could result from industry conditions and could be impacted by labor-related disruptions.. Labor costs constituted approximately 29 percent of our total operating costs in 2017, our largest expense line item. Industry demand for pilots and the supply of available pilots will impact our labor costs as we seek to retain our employees and compete against other airlines for qualified personnel.. Further, we have three employee groups (pilots, flight attendants and flight dispatchers) which have elected union representation. These groups represent approximately half of our employees. In 2016, we reached a collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters which became effective as of August 1, 2016. The agreement provides for enhancements to pay scales, benefits, and limited work rules. Estimated expenses over the five-year agreement term expiring in 2021 are expected to have a significant impact on our results of operations.. An agreement with the Transport Workers Union for the flight attendant group was approved in December 2017, which will also increase costs over the five-year term of the contract. We are also in the early stages of the process with our flight dispatchers as negotiations commenced in February 2017.. Union contracts with these, or other, work groups could put additional pressure on our labor costs.. If we are unable to reach agreement on the terms of collective bargaining agreements in the future, or we experience wide-spread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and future results.. FAA limitations could impact our ability to grow in the future.. As with all airlines, the FAA must approve all aircraft and cities to be added to our operation specifications. Although there are no restrictions in place at the current time, future limitations from the FAA could potentially hinder our growth.. Unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect travel from our markets to our leisure destinations.. The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Unfavorable U.S. economic conditions have historically driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced discretionary spending for leisure travel. Unfavorable economic conditions could impact demand for airline travel in our small and medium-sized cities to our leisure destinations. During difficult economic times, we may be unable to raise prices in response to fuel cost increases, labor, or other operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The indenture governing our senior unsecured notes contains various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business and could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions.. The indenture governing our senior unsecured notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability, and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • incur liens;. • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming, repurchasing, or retiring our capital stock);. • make investments; and. • consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. These covenants are subject to exceptions and qualifications which are described in the indenture we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.. 16. Our indebtedness, debt service obligations and other commitments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from servicing our debt and operating our business.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and other commitments with significant debt service and fixed charge obligations which could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under agreements governing our indebtedness;. • make it more difficult to satisfy our other future obligations, including our obligations to pay the purchase price in respect of current and future aircraft purchase contracts;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to fund internal growth through working capital, capital expenditures, and for other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment, legislation and our industry;. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business, economic, industry, market or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. • expose us to interest rate and pricing increases on indebtedness and financing arrangements;. • restrict us from pursuing strategic acquisitions or exploiting certain business opportunities;. • subject us to a greater risk of non-compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in financing arrangements;. • limit, among other things, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy and other purposes or raise equity capital in the future and increasing the costs of such additional financings; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may not be as highly leveraged or who have less debt in relation to cash flow.. We have outstanding $450.0 million of our 5.5% notes due in July 2019. Although we expect to be able to refinance this debt, refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. In addition, our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. At maturity, or in the event of an acceleration of payment obligations, we may be unable to pay our outstanding indebtedness with our cash and cash equivalents then on hand. In such event, we would be required to seek alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, terms as favorable as our current agreements, or at all. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or find alternative means of financing our operations, we may be required to take actions that are inconsistent with our current business practices or strategy.. Any inability to obtain financing for aircraft under contract could harm our fleet retirement and growth plan.. We typically finance our aircraft through debt financing after purchase. Although we believe debt financing will be available. for the aircraft we will acquire, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to secure such financing on terms attractive to. us or at all. To the extent we cannot secure such financing on acceptable terms or at all, we may be required to modify our. aircraft acquisition and retirement plans, incur higher than anticipated financing costs, or use more of our cash balances for. aircraft acquisitions than we currently expect.. Our maintenance costs may increase as our fleet ages.. In general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age, and exceeds the cost to maintain newer aircraft. FAA regulations, including the Aging Aircraft Airworthiness Directives, require additional and enhanced maintenance inspections for older aircraft. These regulations can directly impact the frequency of inspections as an aircraft ages, and vary by aircraft or engine type, depending on the unique characteristics of each aircraft and/or engine. Although we plan to retire all of our MD-80 aircraft by the end of 2018, we will continue to maintain them in accordance with FAA regulations until retirement.. Engine overhaul expenses for our Airbus series 320 aircraft will be significantly higher than similar expenses for our MD-80 aircraft. These major maintenance expenses are capitalized and amortized as part of depreciation and amortization expense.. 17. In addition, we may be required to comply with any future law changes, regulations, or airworthiness directives. We cannot assure investors our maintenance costs will not exceed our expectations.. We rely on third parties to provide us with facilities, aircraft and services that are integral to our business.. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as aircraft maintenance, ground handling, baggage services, and ticket counter space. Our reliance on others to provide essential services on our behalf gives us less control over costs and the efficiency, timeliness and quality of contract services.. We also rely on the owners of aircraft under contract, the manufacturer of Airbus aircraft under contract and on the lessees under aircraft leases, to be able to deliver, or redeliver, aircraft in accordance with the terms of executed agreements in a timely manner. Our planned initiation of service with these aircraft in the future could be adversely affected if the third parties fail to perform as contractually obligated.. We may not be able to maintain or grow our ancillary revenues.. Our business strategy includes expanding our ancillary products and services. We cannot ensure that passengers will pay for additional ancillary products and services we offer in the future, or that they will continue to pay for the ancillary products and services we currently offer. Regulatory changes could also adversely affect our ancillary revenue opportunities. Failure to maintain our ancillary revenues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and stock price. If we are unable to maintain and grow these revenues, we may be unable to execute our strategy to continue to offer low base fares in order to stimulate demand.. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr., president, John Redmond, and a small number of senior management and operating personnel. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Gallagher, Mr. Redmond or any other executives. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business.. Risks Associated with the Airline and Travel Industry. The airline industry is highly competitive and future competition in our under-served markets could harm our business.. The airline industry is highly competitive. The smaller cities we serve on a scheduled basis have traditionally attracted considerably less attention from our potential competitors than larger markets, and in most of our small city markets, we are the only provider of nonstop service to our leisure destinations. In 2014, we began service to medium-sized cities which we believe to be under-served for nonstop service to our leisure destinations. If other airlines begin to provide nonstop services to and from these markets, or otherwise target these markets, the increase in the amount of direct or indirect competition could cause us to reconsider service to affected markets or could impact our margins.. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts, or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry.. Even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts, or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand for travel services. These actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, would likely harm our business and the airline and travel industry. If we are called on to provide aircraft in the event of national emergencies as a result of our participation in the CRAF program, our operations would be disrupted.. Changes in government laws and regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs.. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to incur significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, fleet integration of newer aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance. 18. systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, weight and payload limits, assumed average passenger weight, and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on aging aircraft. Proposals have also been made to re-regulate the airline industry. The future cost of complying with these and other laws, rules and regulations, including new federal legislative and DOT regulatory requirements in the consumer-protection area, cannot be predicted and could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. In recent years, the DOT has adopted revisions and expansions to a variety of its consumer protection regulations and policies. Additional new regulations or policies may be proposed or take effect in 2018. We are not able to predict the impact of any new consumer protection rules on our business, though we monitor the progress of potential rulings. We are subject to fines or other enforcement actions if the DOT believes we are not in compliance with these or other rules or regulations or with the federal consumer protection laws administered by the DOT. Even if our practices are found to be in compliance with the DOT rules, we could incur substantial costs defending our practices.. In November 2013, the FAA proposed revisions to the method by which air carriers calculate and control aircraft weight-and-balance. The proposal is based on a continuing increase in the average weight of persons in the United States. The FAA accepted industry comment on its proposal as amended, through mid-2017, but to date, no decision has been issued. If the revisions are adopted as proposed by the FAA, the ability of carriers to rely on average weights for this purpose will be complicated significantly, additional costs may result, and we may be required to carry less than full loads on certain flights.. Congress also may consider privatization of the U.S. Air Traffic Control system with user fee based funding; the potential effect on our operating costs is unknown. Additionally, federal funding to airports and/or airport bond financing could be affected through future deficit reduction legislation, which could result in higher fees, rates, and charges at many of the airports we serve.. In the past, legislation to address climate change issues has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire market-based allowances to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. We cannot predict whether this or any similar legislation will be introduced or pass the Congress or, if enacted into law, how it would apply to the airline industry. In addition, the EPA concluded in 2016 that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases emitted by various aircraft, including all of the aircraft we operate, threaten public health and welfare. This finding is a precursor to EPA regulation of commercial aircraft emissions in the United States, as has taken effect for operations within the European Union under EU legislation. Certain binding international restrictions adopted under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organization (\"ICAO\") (a specialized agency of the United Nations) may become effective within several years. The EPA has indicated the regulations it intends to propose will be no less stringent than the ICAO standards. These developments and any additional legislation or regulations addressing climate change are likely to increase our costs of doing business in the future and the increases could be material.. With respect to aging aircraft, aircraft weight-and-balance, consumer protection, climate change, taxation, and other matters affecting the airline industry, whether the source of new requirements is legislative or regulatory, increased costs will adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass the costs on to our customers or adjust our operations to offset the new costs.. Airlines are often affected by factors beyond their control, including air traffic congestion, weather conditions, increased security measures, the outbreak of disease and a reduction in demand to any particular market, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports and en route, adverse weather conditions, increased security measures, and the outbreak of disease. Delays frustrate passengers and increase costs, which in turn could affect profitability. During periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be canceled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems, and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. Contagious illness and fear of contagion could have a material adverse impact on the airline industry. Any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of an outbreak of disease or other travel advisories could dampen demand for our services even if not applicable to our markets. Resulting decreases in passenger volume would harm our load factors, could increase our cost per passenger and adversely affect our profitability.. A substantial proportion of our scheduled flights have Las Vegas, Orlando, Phoenix, Tampa/St. Petersburg, Los Angeles, or Punta Gorda as either their destination or origin. Our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation to one or more of these markets, or our other leisure destinations, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of the particular city, significant price increases, or the impact of future terrorist attacks or natural disasters.. 19. Risks Related to Our Stock Price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • fuel price volatility, and the effect of economic and geopolitical factors and worldwide oil supply and consumption on fuel availability. • announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry, or the economy in general. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings. • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate. • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines. • announcements concerning our business strategy. • our ability to grow service in the future as rapidly as the market anticipates as we continue to add more cities to our network. • general and industry-specific economic conditions. • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. • substantial sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings. • additional issuances of our common stock. • labor work actions. • general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations.. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter and bylaws, as well as Nevada law.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and under Nevada law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party:. • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings. • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings. • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. We are also subject to provisions of Nevada law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any \"interested stockholder,\" meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns 10 percent or more of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of time after the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors and stockholders.. Under U.S. laws and the regulations of the DOT, U.S. citizens must effectively control us. As a result, our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors must be U.S. citizens and not more than 25 percent of our voting stock may be owned by non-U.S. citizens (although subject to DOT approval, the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49 percent). Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. 20. Our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting voting by non-U.S. citizens.. To comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of U.S. airlines, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict voting of shares of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens. The restrictions imposed by federal law currently require no more than 25 percent of our stock be voted, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not U.S. citizens, and that our president and at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors be U.S. citizens. Our bylaws provide no shares of our capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of non-U.S. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the foreign stock record. Our bylaws further provide no shares of our capital stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. Registration on the foreign stock record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. Non-U.S. citizens will be able to own and vote shares of our common stock only if the combined ownership by all non-U.S. citizens does not violate these requirements."
