[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition.  Set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described are not the only risks and uncertainties that could affect our business.  See the discussion under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Cyclical Demand for Products. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating potential uncertainty regarding future profitability.  Various changes in general economic conditions may affect the industries in which our customers operate.  These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers' products due to economic downturns.  Other factors that may cause fluctuation in our customers' positions are changes in market demand, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, currency fluctuations, lower priced imports and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials.  As a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation.. Risks Associated with the Commercial Aerospace Industry. A significant portion of the sales of our HPMC segment represents products sold to customers in the commercial aerospace industry.  Fulfilling contractual arrangements to provide various products to customers in this industry often involves meeting highly exacting performance requirements and product specifications, and our failure to meet those requirements and specifications on a timely and cost efficient basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and financial condition.  The commercial aerospace industry has historically been cyclical due to factors both external and internal to the airline industry.  These factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, consumer demand for air travel, varying fuel and labor costs, execution of projected build rates, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism.  The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation are influenced by these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty.  Demand for our products, particularly those produced in our HPMC segment, is subject to these cyclical trends.  Although the commercial aerospace industry is currently experiencing a period of production expansion related to the introduction of next-generation engines and aircraft, we cannot provide any assurance as to the ultimate magnitude or duration of this trend or its impact on our business.  A downturn in the commercial aerospace industry has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on the prices at which we are able to sell our products, and our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. 9. Risks Associated with the Oil & Gas Industry. The oil and gas industry, which historically has been a significant end market for both our HPMC and FRP segments, is highly cyclical and subject to volatility as a result of worldwide economic activity and associated demand for oil and natural gas, anticipated future prices for oil and natural gas, fluctuation in the level of drilling activity, changes in applicable regulation, global geopolitical conditions and numerous other factors.  Demand for our products are likewise subject to these trends.  In recent years, our business has been negatively impacted by the downturn and slow recovery in the oil and gas industry.  While we believe that conditions in this end market are improving, and we are beginning to see positive impacts on our business as a result, we expect that it will remain a highly cyclical industry and future downturns could have an adverse effect on the prices at which we are able to sell our products, and our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Volatility of Raw Material Costs. Most of our inventory is valued utilizing the last-in, first-out (LIFO) costing methodology.  Inventory of our non-U.S. operations is valued using average cost or first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods.  Under the LIFO inventory valuation method, changes in the cost of raw materials and production activities are recognized in cost of sales in the current period even though these material and other costs may have been incurred at significantly different values due to the length of time of our production cycle.  In a period of rising prices, cost of sales expense recognized under LIFO is generally higher than the cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold.  Conversely, in a period of declining raw material prices, cost of sales recognized under LIFO is generally lower than cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold.  Generally, over time based on overall inflationary trends in raw materials, labor and overhead costs, the use of the LIFO inventory valuation method will result in a LIFO inventory valuation reserve, as the higher current period costs are included in cost of sales and the balance sheet carrying value of inventory is reduced.. The prices for many of the raw materials we use have been extremely volatile during the past several years.  Since we value most of our inventory utilizing the LIFO inventory costing methodology, a fall in raw material costs results in a benefit to operating results by reducing cost of sales and increasing the inventory carrying value, while conversely, a rise in raw material costs has a negative effect on our operating results by increasing cost of sales while lowering the carrying value of inventory.. Due primarily to persistent raw material deflation in prior years, we are in an unusual situation of having a LIFO inventory balance that exceeds replacement cost.  In cases where inventory at FIFO cost is lower than the LIFO carrying value, a write-down of the inventory to market may be required, subject to a lower of cost or market evaluation.  In applying the lower of cost or market principle, market means current replacement cost, subject to a ceiling (market value shall not exceed net realizable value) and a floor (market shall not be less than net realizable value reduced by an allowance for a normal profit margin).  We evaluate product lines on a quarterly basis to identify inventory values that exceed estimated net realizable value.  The calculation of a resulting reserve, if any, is recognized as an expense in the period that the need for the reserve is identified.. Due to the long lead times required to manufacture many of our products, volatility in raw material prices exposes us to cash costs that may not be fully recovered through surcharge and index pricing mechanisms.. Product Pricing. From time-to-time, reduced demand, intense competition and excess manufacturing capacity have resulted in reduced prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our products.  These factors have had and may have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition.. Although inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during most of the same period, certain critical raw material costs, such as nickel, titanium sponge, chromium, and molybdenum and scrap containing iron, nickel, titanium, chromium, and molybdenum have been volatile.  While we have been able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of volatile raw material costs through raw material surcharges or indices to customers, rapid changes in raw material costs causes volatility in, and may adversely affect, our results of operations.. We change prices on certain of our products from time-to-time.  The ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control.  The benefits of any price increases may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts.. Goodwill or Long-Lived Asset Impairments. We have various long-lived assets that are subject to impairment testing.  We review the recoverability of goodwill annually, or more frequently whenever significant events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recorded goodwill of a reporting unit may be below that reporting unit's fair value.  Our businesses operate in highly cyclical industries, such as commercial aerospace and oil & gas, and as such, our estimates of future cash flows, market demand, the cost of capital, and forecasted growth rates and other factors may fluctuate, which may lead to changes in estimated fair value and, therefore, impairment charges in future periods.  For the 2017 annual goodwill impairment evaluation, both of our reporting units with goodwill had fair values that were significantly in excess of carrying value.  Additionally, we have a significant amount of property, plant and equipment and acquired intangible assets that may be subject to impairment testing, depending on factors such as market conditions, the demand for our products, and facility utilization levels.  Any. 10. determination requiring the impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other long-lived assets has had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated with Strategic Capital Projects. From time-to-time, we undertake strategic capital projects in order to enhance, expand and/or upgrade our facilities and operational capabilities.  For instance, over the last several years we have undertaken major expansions of our titanium and premium-melt nickel-based alloy, superalloy and specialty alloy production capabilities, and finished product commissioning of a new advanced hot-rolling and processing facility.  Our ability to achieve the anticipated increased revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on these investments or other strategic capital projects that we may undertake is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including a variety of market, operational, permitting, and labor-related factors.  In addition, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater than originally anticipated.  If we are not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of our strategic capital projects, or if we incur unanticipated implementation costs or delays, our results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected.. Dependence on Critical Raw Materials Subject to Price and Availability Fluctuations. We rely to a substantial extent on third parties to supply certain raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products.  Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility.  At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all.. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply.  In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials.. The manufacture of some of our products is a complex process and requires long lead times.  As a result, we may experience delays or shortages in the supply of raw materials.  If unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of products.  This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions, or suffer harm to our reputation.. We acquire certain important raw materials that we use to produce specialty materials, including nickel, zirconium, niobium, chromium, cobalt, and titanium sponge, from foreign sources.  Some of these sources operate in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions.  These conditions may disrupt supplies or affect the prices of these materials.. Availability of Energy Resources. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products.  The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions.  These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our profitability.  To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Associated with Environmental Matters. We are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and disposal of wastes, and which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations.  We could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities.  We are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of our current and former sites as well as third party sites. We also could be subject to future laws and regulations that govern greenhouse gas emissions and various matters related to climate change and other air emissions, which could increase our operating costs.. With respect to proceedings brought under the federal Superfund laws, or similar state statutes, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at approximately 40 of such sites, excluding those at which we believe we have no future liability.  Our involvement is limited or de minimis at approximately 21 of these sites, and the potential loss exposure with respect to 12 individual sites is not considered to be material.. We are a party to various cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs at many of the sites.  The terms of the cost-sharing arrangements are subject to non-disclosure agreements as confidential information.  Nevertheless, the cost-sharing arrangements generally require all PRPs to post financial assurance of the performance of the obligations or to pre-pay into an escrow or trust account their share of anticipated site-related costs.  In addition, the Federal government, through various agencies, is a party to several such arrangements.. 11. We believe that we operate our businesses in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.  However, from time-to-time, we are a party to lawsuits and other proceedings involving alleged violations of, or liabilities arising from, environmental laws.  When our liability is probable and we can reasonably estimate our costs, we record environmental liabilities in our financial statements.  In many cases, we are not able to determine whether we are liable or if liability is probable or to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss.  Estimates of our liability remain subject to additional uncertainties, including the nature and extent of site contamination, available remediation alternatives, the extent of corrective actions that may be required, and the participation number and financial condition of other PRPs, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.  We intend to adjust our accruals to reflect new information as appropriate.  Future adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period, but we cannot reliably predict the amounts of such future adjustments.  At December 31, 2017, our reserves for environmental matters totaled approximately $12 million.  Based on currently available information, we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a loss exceeding the amount already accrued for any of the sites with which we are currently associated (either individually or in the aggregate) will be an amount that would be material to a decision to buy or sell our securities.  Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Associated with Current or Future Litigation and Claims. A number of lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our currently and formerly owned businesses, including those pertaining to product liability, patent infringement, commercial disputes, government contracting, employment matters, employee and retiree benefits, taxes, environmental matters, health and safety and occupational disease, and stockholder and corporate governance matters.  Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on all claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future.  While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us, we do not believe that the disposition of any such pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period.  Also, we can give no assurance that any other claims brought in the future will not have a material effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Labor Matters. We have approximately 8,600 full-time employees, of which approximately 15% are located outside the United States.  Approximately 40% of our workforce is covered by various collective bargaining agreements (CBAs), predominantly with the USW.  At various times, our CBAs expire and are subject to renegotiation.  CBA's with the USW that cover approximately 600 employees expired in 2017, and operations continue at these facilities while negotiations with the USW are ongoing.  In addition, the Company has CBAs with approximately 300 full-time employees that expire in 2018.  Generally, collective bargaining agreements that expire may be terminated after notice by the union.  After termination, the union may authorize a strike.  A labor dispute, which could lead to a strike, lockout, or other work stoppage by the employees covered by one or more of the collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse effect on production at one or more of our facilities and, depending upon the length of such dispute or work stoppage, on our operating results.  There can be no assurance that we will succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements to replace those that expire.. Export Sales. We believe that export sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our future revenues.  Risks associated with export sales include: political and economic instability, including weak conditions in the world's economies; accounts receivable collection; export controls; changes in legal and regulatory requirements; policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in tax laws and tariffs; trade duties; and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of profits earned on export sales when converted into dollars).  Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results for the period in which they occur.. Risks Associated with Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion.  This substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate enough cash to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness.  Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders and significant effects on our business.  For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, our strategic growth initiatives and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from taking advantage of business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and. 12. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes.. In addition, the agreements that govern our current indebtedness contain, and the agreements that may govern any future indebtedness that we may incur may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests.  Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt.. Risks Associated with Retirement Benefits. At December 31, 2017, our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (ATI Pension Plan) was approximately 76% funded as calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Based upon current regulations and actuarial studies, we expect to make approximately a $40 million cash contribution to the ATI Pension Plan in 2018, and we currently expect to have average annual funding requirements of approximately $85 million for the next few years thereafter, using an expected 7.75% rate of return on pension plan assets.  However, these estimates are subject to significant uncertainty, including potential changes to mortality tables with revised longevity estimates, and the performance of our pension trust assets.  Depending on the timing and amount, a requirement that we fund the ATI Pension Plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Associated with Acquisition and Disposition Strategies. We intend to continue to strategically position our businesses in order to improve our ability to compete.  Strategies we employ to accomplish this may include seeking new or expanding existing specialty market niches for our products, expanding our global presence, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths, and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units.  From time-to-time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions.  As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change.  Acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction.  International acquisitions and other transactions could be affected by export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions, changes in tax laws and a deterioration in domestic and foreign economic conditions.. Risks Associated with Information Technology. Information technology infrastructure is critical to supporting business objectives; failure of our information technology infrastructure to operate effectively could adversely affect our business.  We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives.  If a problem occurs that impairs this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course.  Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate.. As we integrate, implement and deploy new information technology processes and information infrastructure across our operations, we could experience disruptions in our business that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Cyber Security Threats. Increased global information technology threats, security requirements, vulnerabilities, and a rise in sophisticated and targeted international computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  We believe that ATI faces the threat of such cyber attacks due to the markets we serve, the products we manufacture, the locations of our operations, and global interest in our technology.  Due to the evolving nature of cyber security threats, the scope and impact of any incident cannot be predicted.  We continually work to safeguard our systems and mitigate potential risks.  Despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches. This could lead to disclosure, modification or destruction of proprietary and other key information, defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions, and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.. 13. Insurance. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations.  Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage.  From time-to-time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self-insured retentions and deductibles, and significantly higher premiums.  As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Political and Social Turmoil. The war on terrorism as well as political and social turmoil could put pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide.  These political, social and economic conditions could make it difficult for us, our suppliers, and our customers to forecast accurately and plan future business activities, and could adversely affect the financial condition of our suppliers and customers and affect customer decisions as to the amount and timing of purchases from us.  As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Associated with Government Contracts. Some of our operating units perform contractual work directly or indirectly for the U.S. Government, which requires compliance with laws and regulations relating to the performance of Government contracts.  Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company audits and investigations or otherwise) could be asserted against us related to our U.S. Government contract work. Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one or more U.S. Government contracts.  Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts based on the results of investigations."
