[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. We may not be able to maintain sufficient capital to continue as a going concern.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our revenue was approximately $4.2 million and we had a net loss of approximately $12.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2016, our revenues were approximately $600,000, and we had a net loss of approximately $4.2 million. At December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $16.5 million. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on obtaining adequate capital to fund operating losses until we become profitable. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital to fund losses and, if we are unable to obtain adequate capital, we would be forced to cease operations.. A failure by us to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce accurate and complete financial reports and to help prevent financial fraud. In addition, such control is required in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. While we have undertaken remedial steps to improve our financial reporting process, including the implementation of a firm-wide accounting information system that collects, stores and processes financial and accounting data on a consolidated basis for use in meeting our reporting obligations, there are no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting has been effective at any time since then. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company did not have effective controls over financial reporting. Our management has identified material weakness in our internal controls related to deficiency in the design of internal controls and segregation of duties.. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls or fail to correct material weaknesses in such controls noted by our management or our independent registered public accounting firm, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, we could again fail to meet our obligations to report our operating results accurately and completely and our continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market could be jeopardized.. Complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies will increase our costs and the demands on management and could harm our operating results.. As a public company and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers.. 10. Our business represents a new business model for the MMA industry.. Our business model focuses on creating a developmental organization by combining a number of regional MMA promotions under one umbrella organization. Our business model is unique to the MMA industry and may not prove to be successful. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business. The MMA industry is also rapidly growing and evolving and may develop in a way that is detrimental to our business model. You must consider the challenges, risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early-stage companies using new and unproven business models in new and rapidly evolving markets. Some of these challenges relate to our ability to:. ·establish or increase our brand name recognition;. ·continue to acquire prominent regional MMA promotions;. ·integrate acquired businesses;. ·     expand our popularity and fan base;. ·successfully produce live events;. ·manage existing relationships with broadcast television outlets and create new relationships to broadcast and distribute our televised content domestically and internationally;. ·develop sponsorship, advertising, licensing and branding activities; and. ·create new outlets for our content and new marketing opportunities.. Our business strategy may not successfully address these and the other challenges, risks and uncertainties that we face, which could adversely affect our overall success and delay or prevent us from achieving profitability.. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed.. Our expansion strategy includes the acquisition of regional MMA promotion companies and organic growth. These acquisitions may not be indicative of our ability to identify, secure and manage future acquisitions successfully. The acquisition of our current promotions or any future businesses may require a greater than anticipated investment of operational and financial resources as we seek to institute uniform standards and controls across promotions. Acquisitions may also result in the diversion of management and resources, increases in administrative costs, including those relating to the assimilation of new employees, and costs associated with any financings undertaken in connection with such acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we undertake, including those we have already made, will be successful. Future growth will also place additional demands on our management, sales, and marketing resources, and may require us to hire and train additional employees. We will need to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate our growth, and we may not have the resources to do so in the time frames required. The failure to manage our growth effectively will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. We may be unable to implement our strategy of acquiring additional companies and such acquisitions may subject us to additional unknown risks.. We anticipate making future acquisitions of regional MMA promotions in markets that we do not serve now. We may not be able to reach agreements with such promotions on favorable terms or at all. In completing the acquisition of promotions, we rely upon the representations and warranties and indemnities made by the sellers with respect to each acquisition as well as our own due diligence investigation. We cannot assure you that such representations and warranties will be true and correct or that our due diligence will uncover all materially adverse facts relating to the operations and financial condition of the acquired companies or their businesses. To the extent that we are required to pay for undisclosed obligations of an acquired company, or if material misrepresentations exist, we may not realize the expected economic benefit from such acquisition and our ability to seek legal recourse from the seller may be limited.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future as it has in 2017.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $6.0 million of goodwill and $2.9 million of other net intangible assets net of amortization and impairment. In 2017, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge within the promotion segment of $2.4 million. The impairment was identified as part of management’s review of impairment indicators during the fourth quarter. Accordingly, it was determined the recoverable value of the promotion segment was less than the carrying value and therefore, an impairment loss was recorded. Additionally, the Company recorded a $893,000 impairment expense related to the write down of certain video library, venue contracts and tradename intangible assets. We have recorded goodwill in connection with the acquisitions we have made, and we expect to continue to record goodwill for future acquisitions. Our other net intangible assets include venue relationships, ticketing software, trademarks and brands, fighter contracts, promoter relationships and sponsor relationships, at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment, and we amortize such assets using a method reflecting the period(s) in which the economic benefit of the asset is utilized, which we estimate to be three to ten years. For intangible assets subject to amortization, impairment will be recognized if the carrying amount is deemed to be not recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the intangible asset.. We evaluate goodwill at least annually, and will do so more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Many of the assumptions and estimates that we make in order to estimate the fair value of our intangible assets directly impact the results of impairment testing, including an estimate of future expected revenues, earnings and cash flows, and the discount rates applied to expected cash flows. We are able to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the assumptions and estimates we choose for testing. To avoid undue influence, we have set criteria that are followed in making assumptions and estimates. The determination of whether goodwill or acquired intangible assets have become impaired involves a significant level of judgment in the assumptions underlying the approach used to determine the value of our reporting unit. Changes in our strategy or market conditions could significantly impact these judgments and require adjustments to recorded amounts of intangible assets.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded impairment charges of $2.4 million to goodwill and $893,000 to intangible assets. Declines in our stock price and market capitalization, significant declines in our expected future cash flows, adverse regulatory actions, or the failure of the MMA industry to sustain growth and meet projected targets, among other reasons, may require the Company to realize additional impairment charges in the future. Such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of indebtedness and increased amortization expense.. Future acquisitions are likely to result in issuances of equity securities, which may be dilutive to the equity interests of existing stockholders, and may involve the incurrence of debt, which will require us to maintain cash flows sufficient to make payments of principal and interest, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, and the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be perceived as a competitive threat to the UFC and other premier MMA promotions, which may use their significantly greater resources to impede our business and growth strategy.. Since we promote live events, televise and distribute MMA media and related content, solicit sponsorship revenues and seek to secure professional MMA fighters to multi-fight contracts, we may be perceived as a competitor by the UFC or other premier MMA promotions. Should the UFC or another premier national MMA promotion view us as a competitive threat, they could use their significantly greater resources to frustrate our business and growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our business.. 12. We may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events if we do not comply with applicable regulations.. In various states in the United States and in some foreign jurisdictions, athletic commissions and other applicable regulatory agencies will require us to obtain licenses for promoters, medical clearances and/or other permits or licenses for athletes and/or permits so we can promote and conduct our live events. If we fail to comply with the regulations of a particular jurisdiction, we may be prohibited from promoting and conducting live events in that jurisdiction. The inability to promote live events over an extended period of time or in a number of jurisdictions could lead to a decline in the revenue streams generated from our live events, in which case our operating results would be adversely affected.. We may become involved in litigation which could harm the value of our business.. Because of the nature of our business, there is a risk of litigation from event attendees, sponsors and others. Any litigation could cause us to incur substantial expenses whether or not we prevail, which would add to our costs and affect the capital available for our operations.. We could incur substantial liability in the event of accidents or injuries occurring during our events.. We intend to hold numerous live MMA events each year. Each live event exposes our employees who are involved in the production of those events to the risk of travel and match-related accidents, the costs of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The physical nature of our events will expose our professional MMA fighters to the risk of serious injury or death. Although our fighters, as independent contractors, are responsible for maintaining their own health, disability and life insurance, we insure medical costs for injuries that a fighter may suffer at our events. Any liability we incur as a result of the death of or a serious injury sustained by one of our fighters while fighting in a match at our events, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our live events will entail other risks inherent in public live events, including air and land travel interruption or accidents, the spread of illness, injuries resulting from building problems, equipment malfunction, terrorism or other violence, local labor strikes and other “force majeure” type events. These circumstances could result in personal injuries or deaths, canceled events and other disruptions to our business for which we do not carry business interruption insurance, or result in liability to third parties for which we may not have insurance. The occurrence of any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A future decline in the popularity of mixed martial arts could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are affected by consumer tastes and sports and entertainment trends, which are unpredictable and subject to change, and may be affected by changes in the social and political climate. We believe that MMA is growing in popularity in the United States and around the world, but a change in our fans’ tastes or a material change in the perceptions of the MMA industry, whether due to social or political issues or otherwise, could adversely affect our operating results and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to attract and retain key professional MMA fighters.. Our business is dependent upon identifying, recruiting and retaining highly regarded professional MMA fighters for our promotions. Fans and sponsors are attracted to events featuring top fighters, and the value placed on a promotion’s television and other media rights is dependent to a great extent on the quality of the promotion’s fighter roster. We may not be able to attract and retain key professional MMA fighters due to competition with other regional promoters for the same fighters. Failing to put on events featuring top professional fighters could adversely affect our operating results and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to attract national promotional and advertising sponsorships or maintain such arrangements.. Our business strategy involves developing national sponsorship arrangements, or expanding existing regional sponsorship arrangements, in support of our network of live MMA events. We will compete with larger more established sports and entertainment organizations and media outlets for sponsorship and advertising revenue. While many of our promotions maintain existing local and regional sponsorship arrangements with large advertisers who advertise on a national basis in our target markets and demographic, they currently have no national sponsorships. Should we be able to secure national promotional and advertising arrangements, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain these arrangements. Many factors, including the popularity and perception of MMA and the perceived quality of our promotions, will significantly affect our ability to secure and maintain important advertising and promotional arrangements. If we are unable to generate sponsorship and promotional revenue and increase that revenue over time, our operating results and business will be adversely affected.. 13. Economic uncertainty impacts our business and financial results and a renewed recession could materially affect us in the future.. Any significant decrease in consumer confidence, or periods of economic slowdown or recession, could lead to a curtailing of discretionary spending, which in turn could reduce our revenues and results of operations and adversely affect our financial position. Our business will be dependent upon consumer discretionary spending and therefore is affected by consumer confidence as well as the future performance of the United States and global economies. As a result, our results of operations are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions. Increases in job losses, home foreclosures, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies, credit card debt and home mortgage and other borrowing costs, declines in housing values and reduced access to credit, among other factors, may result in lower levels of ticket sales, sponsorship and distribution revenue.. We depend on the services of key executives, and the loss of these executives could materially harm our business and our strategic direction if we were unable to replace them with executives of equal experience and capabilities.. Our future success significantly depends on the continued service and performance of our key management personnel. We cannot prevent members of senior management from terminating their employment with us even if we have an employment agreement with them. Losing the services of members of senior management could materially harm our business until a suitable replacement is found, and such replacement may not have equal experience and capabilities. We have not purchased life insurance covering any members of our senior management.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence.. We face competition from, in addition to other MMA promotions, professional and college sports, as well as from other forms of live and televised entertainment and other leisure activities that are offered in a rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented marketplace. Many of the companies with which we will compete have greater financial resources than are available to us. Our failure to compete effectively could result in a significant loss of viewers, venues, distribution channels or athletes and fewer advertising dollars spent on our form of sporting events, any of which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the area, different rules and regulations and challenging operating environments.. Some of our future acquisitions may be located in geographic areas where we have little or no experience in promoting events. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause future promotions to be less successful than our existing promotions. Acquisitions in new markets may not generate the same level of revenues and may have higher operating expense ratios than our existing promotions.. Some of our future acquisitions may occur outside the United States. Beyond the risks posed by new markets generally, the operating conditions in overseas markets may vary significantly from those we currently experience, including in relation to consumer preferences, regulatory environment, currency risk, the presence and cooperation of suitable local partners and availability of vendors or commercial and physical infrastructure, among others. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in integrating these acquisitions into our operations, achieving market acceptance, operating these acquisitions profitably, and maintaining compliance with the rapidly changing business and regulatory requirements of new markets. Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to obtain and maintain key agreements and arrangements with television and other media outlets could adversely affect our ability to distribute our original MMA programming.. Our business strategy is dependent upon monetizing the media content we create at our live MMA events through live television and cable broadcasts and the distribution of live and historical video content through a variety of media outlets such as Internet pay-per-view and video on demand. We also anticipate that our growth will be dependent on securing international distribution arrangements for our content. There is significant competition for television and other distribution arrangements from within the MMA industry and from other sports and entertainment companies who offer these media outlets programming alternatives to our MMA content. Our failure to obtain and maintain key agreements and arrangements with television and other media outlets could adversely affect our ability to distribute our original MMA programming, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our limited operating history makes forecasting our revenues and expenses difficult.. Revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast accurately because of our limited operating history as a combined business, which commenced in October 2016, and because such results generally depend on our ability to secure national sponsorships and advertising arrangements for our regional promotions, and enter into television and media distribution arrangements, all of which are subject to varying degrees of uncertainty. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending appropriately to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may result in substantial losses and a lower market price for our common stock.. 14. We may need additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all.. In order for us to grow and execute our business plan successfully, we will require additional financing which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If such financing is available, it may be dilutive to the equity interests of existing stockholders. Failure to obtain financing will have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed.. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards and corporate governance requirements for Nasdaq Capital Market companies, we may be subject to de-listing.. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain this listing, we are required to comply with various continued listing standards, including corporate governance requirements, set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rules. These standards and requirements include, but are not limited to, maintaining a minimum bid price for our common stock, as well as having a majority of our Board members qualify as independent. If we fail to meet any one of these requirements for an extended period of time, we will be subject to possible de-listing.. In November 2017, we received a letter from Nasdaq’s Listing Qualifications Office informing us that, due to the resignation of one of the independent members of our Board of Directors, who also served as the chairman of our Audit Committee and a member of our Compensation Committee, we are not in compliance with the applicable Nasdaq rule governing the composition of audit and compensation committees. The letter also stated that we are entitled to a “cure period” in which to correct the deficiency that extends until October 24, 2018 or, if earlier, our next annual meeting of stockholders. While we believe that we will regain compliance within the specified cure period, if we fail to do so for any reason, Nasdaq will notify us that our common stock is subject to de-listing.. On February 22, 2018, we received a letter notifying us that Alliance is not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) requires listed securities to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) provides that a failure to meet the minimum bid price requirement exists if the deficiency continues for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Based on the closing bid price of the Company’s common stock for the 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the letter, Alliance no longer meets the minimum bid price requirement.. The February letter does not impact our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market at this time. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided 180 calendar days from the date of this letter, or until August 21, 2018, to regain compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In the event the Company does not regain compliance by August 21, 2018, the Company may be eligible for an additional period of 180 days within which to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the Company’s common stock must have a closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days.. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and our ability to grow our business.. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to enter the market periodically in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for our common stock will be stable or that our share price will appreciate over time. Because we intend to acquire additional regional MMA promotion businesses primarily using our common stock as purchase consideration, fluctuations in the price and trading volume of our common stock may make such acquisitions more difficult to consummate or may make them more dilutive to the equity interests of existing stockholders.. 15. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. ·changes in the MMA industry;. ·our ability to secure sponsorships and distribution arrangements for our content;. ·our ability to obtain working capital financing;. ·additions or departures of key personnel;. ·sales of our common stock;. ·our ability to execute our business plan;. ·operating results that fall below expectations;. ·regulatory developments; and. ·economic and other external factors.. In addition, the securities markets from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. The periodic availability of shares for sale upon the expiration of any statutory holding period or lockup agreements, could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang”, in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.. We may be unable to establish, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights adequately.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We maintain a catalog of copyrighted works, including copyrights covering television programming and photographs. Our inability to protect our portfolio of copyrighted material, tradenames and other intellectual property rights from infringement, piracy, counterfeiting or other unauthorized use could negatively affect our business. If we fail to establish, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may lose an important advantage in the market in which we compete. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to help us maintain our position in the market and our competitive advantages. Monitoring unauthorized uses of and enforcing our intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly. Legal intellectual property actions are inherently uncertain and may not be successful, and may require a substantial amount of resources and management attention.. We have entered into agreements that provide for the repurchase or revocability of certain of our intellectual property rights, including the Alliance brand name, under certain limited circumstances.. In connection with the acquisitions we have made since our initial public offering, we acquired or licensed a number of trademarks and copyrights, including the Alliance brand name. Some of these agreements provide for the revocation or possible repurchase of our ownership or license of this intellectual property under certain conditions, such as a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy petition that is not stayed or dismissed within 60 days or the de-listing of our common stock from Nasdaq. While we believe the likelihood of these contingencies occurring to be remote, should any one or more of them occur, we may forfeit either our ownership of or our right to use valuable intellectual property assets, including the brand name that we are currently using to market ourselves.. 16. Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We are subject to the laws, regulations and other requirements of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes to these laws could have a material adverse impact on the revenue, profit or the operation of our business.. Disruptions in our information technology systems or security breaches of confidential customer information or personal employee information could have an adverse impact on our operations.. Our operations are dependent upon the integrity, security and consistent operation of various information technology systems and data centers, including our ticketing system, data centers that process transactions, communication systems and various other software applications used throughout our operations. Disruptions in these systems could have an adverse impact on our operations. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties could lead to significant expenses or to losses due to disruption in our business operations.. In addition, our information technology systems are subject to the risk of infiltration or data theft. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage information technology systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect or prevent over long periods of time. Moreover, the hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the security of our information systems. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud or deception aimed at our employees, contractors or temporary staff. In the event that the security of our information systems is compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated and system disruptions could occur. Any such misappropriation or disruption could cause significant harm to our reputation, lead to a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages.. Our current insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims and we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance.. We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type; however, we may be unable to insure against certain types of losses or claims, or the cost of such insurance may be prohibitive. For example, although we carry insurance for breaches of our computer network security, there can be no assurance that such insurance will cover all potential losses or claims or that the dollar limits of such insurance will be sufficient to provide full coverage against all losses or claims. Uninsured losses or claims, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations.. We may be required to pay for the defense of our clients, officers, or directors in accordance with certain indemnification provisions.. The Company provides indemnification of varying scope to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of the Company’s services. In accordance with authoritative guidance for accounting for guarantees, the Company evaluates estimated losses for such indemnification. The Company considers such factors as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To date, no such claims have been filed against the Company and, as a result, no liability has been recorded in the Company’s financial statements.. As permitted under Delaware law, the Company has agreements whereby it indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was, serving at the Company’s request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, the Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance coverage that is intended to reduce its financial exposure and may enable the Company to recover a portion of any such payments.. 17"
