[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) before making any investment decision with respect to the Company's securities. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also affect the Company's business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations could change.. We participate in a highly competitive environment.. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions. Our products may be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations. We face intense competition from other manufacturers. Some of our competitors may be larger than we are and may have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe that price competition will continue among products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval and introducing or commercializing products before we do. Such developments could have a significant negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner.. 8. Decreased availability or increased costs of raw materials could increase our costs of producing our products.. We purchase raw materials, fabricated components and services from a variety of suppliers. Raw materials such as brass, plastics, and calcium hydroxide are considered key raw materials. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory and that alternative sources of supply are readily available. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate due to global market demands, which could impair the company's ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of such materials. Inflationary and other increases in costs of these raw materials have occurred in the past and may recur from time to time. In addition, freight costs associated with shipping and receiving product and sales are impacted by fluctuations in the cost of oil and gas.. While the recent imposition of tariffs on steel and aluminum have not had material impacts on prices for our raw materials, continuation or expansion of these tariffs could result in material increases in our costs. A reduction in the supply or increase in the cost of those raw materials could impact our ability to manufacture our products and could increase the cost of production.. Changes in third party reimbursement could negatively impact our revenues and profitability.. The cost of a majority of medical care in the United States is funded by the U.S. Government through the Medicare and Medicaid programs and by private insurance programs, such as corporate health insurance plans. Although we do not receive payments for our products directly from these programs, home respiratory care providers and durable medical equipment suppliers, who are the primary customers for several of our products, depend heavily on payments from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers as a major source of revenues. In addition, sales of certain of our products are affected by the extent of hospital and health care facility construction and renovation at any given time. The federal government indirectly funds a significant percentage of such construction and renovation costs through Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. In recent years, governmentally imposed limits on reimbursement to hospitals and other health care providers have impacted spending for services, consumables and capital goods. A material decrease from current reimbursement levels or a material change in the method or basis of reimbursing health care providers is likely to adversely affect future sales of our products.. Our success depends upon the development of new products and product enhancements, which entails considerable time and expense.. We place a high priority on the development of new products to add to our product portfolio and on the development of enhancements to our existing products. Product development involves substantial expense and we cannot be certain that a completed product will generate sufficient revenue for our business to justify the resources that we devote to research and development related to such product. The time and expense required to develop new products and product enhancements is difficult to predict and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in developing, introducing and marketing new products and product enhancements. Our inability to successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis or at all, or to achieve market acceptance of such products, could materially impair our business.. We are dependent on adequate protection of our patent and proprietary rights.. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. We cannot assure you that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies or otherwise obtain access to our technology and trade secrets. Our competitors, many of which have substantial resources and may make substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to manufacture or market our products. Further, while we do not believe that any of our products or processes interfere with the rights of others, third parties may nonetheless assert patent infringement claims against us in the future.. Costly litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how we own, to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. Any claims of infringement against us may involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent or delay us from manufacturing, selling, or using our products. The occurrence of such litigation or the effect of an adverse determination in any of this type of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Our business of manufacturing, marketing, and selling of medical devices involves the risk of liability claims and such claims could seriously harm our business, particularly if our insurance coverage is inadequate.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of medical devices. Like other participants in the medical device market, we are from time to time involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings alleging product liability and related claims such as negligence. If any current or future product liability claims become substantial, our reputation could be damaged significantly, thereby harming our business. We may be required to pay substantial damage awards as a result of any successful product liability claims. Any product liability claim against us, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, and divert the time, attention, and resources of our management.. As a result of our exposure to product liability claims, we currently carry product liability insurance covering our products with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we have deemed to be sufficient. Our insurance may not cover certain product liability claims or our liability for any claims may exceed our coverage limits. Therefore, we cannot predict whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. In addition, these insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain liability insurance, such insurance may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim against us or settlement by us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, or our inability to maintain insurance in the future, or any claim that results in significant costs to or adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to substantial domestic and international government regulation, including regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes. Failure by us to comply with these standards could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The FDA regulates the approval, manufacturing, and sales and marketing of many of our products in the U.S. Significant government regulation also exists in Canada, Japan, Europe, and other countries in which we conduct business. As a device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Failure to comply with current governmental regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls or related field actions, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. Efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls or related field actions, withdrawals, and/or declining sales.. Our products may be subject to product recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation and our business.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which our products are sold, have the authority to request and, in some cases, require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects. Any recall of product would divert managerial and financial resources, may harm our reputation with our customers and could damage our business.. 10. We are exposed to certain credit risks, resulting primarily from customer sales.. Substantially all of our receivables are due from homecare providers, distributors, hospitals, and contractors. Our customers are located throughout the U.S. and around the world. We record an estimated allowance for uncollectible amounts based primarily on our evaluation of the payment pattern, financial condition, cash flows, and credit history of our customers, as well as current industry and economic conditions. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable could substantially reduce our income and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our common stock is thinly traded and its market price may fluctuate widely.. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market but is thinly traded. As a result, stockholders may not be able to sell shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variation in our operating results, announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors, and other events or factors. For example, a shortfall in net sales or net income, or an increase in losses could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many micro and small capitalization companies and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline.. We have two manufacturing operations. In the event that one of these facilities were severely damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural or man-made disaster we would be forced to relocate production to other facilities and/or rely on third-party manufacturers. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have insurance for damage to our property and the interruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. If we are unable to hire or retain key employees, it could have a negative impact on our business.. Our failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could hinder the management of our business, our research and development, our sales and marketing efforts, and our manufacturing capabilities. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. We compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage.. The U.S. healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us, as a result of federal healthcare legislation enacted in 2010.. Our products and services are primarily intended to function within the current structure of the healthcare industry in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes designed to control costs. The use of managed care has increased; Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have declined; distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers have consolidated; and large, sophisticated purchasing groups have become more prevalent.. In March 2010, Congress approved, and the President signed into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively the \"Healthcare Reform Acts\"). Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the Healthcare Reform Acts did not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer must now pay a tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which the manufacturer sells its medical devices, as discussed in “Item 7- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. We manufacture and sell devices that are subject to this tax. On December 18, 2015, The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 was signed into law. This Act included a moratorium on the medical device tax during the period beginning on January 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 2017. On January 22, 2018, H.R. 195 (Pub. L. 115-120) was signed into law which extends the moratorium until December 31, 2019. If the moratorium expires as scheduled, our costs will increase as a result of this tax.. 11. We also could be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for medical devices.. Other provisions of this law as currently enacted, including an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or internationally. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes or increase cost containment pressures on us or other participants in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements required due diligence efforts beginning in fiscal 2014, with initial disclosure requirements which began in May 2014. There were and continue to be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. The limited information provided by the suppliers in response to the survey in some cases did not identify the facilities used to process or the country of origin of the necessary conflict minerals in its products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering  -  “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement.. We have a history of net losses in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 and we may not be able to return to profitability in the future, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We have a history of net losses. We reported a net loss of $2.3 million in fiscal 2016, a net loss of $2.1 million in fiscal 2017 and a net loss of $2.2 million in fiscal 2018. We will need to generate and sustain increased sales levels in the future to become consistently profitable, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts to return to profitability. We may also incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this Form 10-K, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock may significantly decrease. If we continue to experience operating losses and we are not able to generate additional liquidity through other means, then our liquidity needs may exceed availability under our credit facility, and we might need to secure additional sources of funds, which may or may not be available to us. Additionally, a failure to generate additional liquidity could negatively impact our access to raw materials or services that are important to the operation of our business."
