[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Unilever Transaction. In relation to the Unilever Transaction, the company is subject to certain risks including, but not limited to, those set forth below.. The Unilever Transaction is subject to a number of conditions and termination events which if not satisfied or waived would adversely impact the company's ability to complete the transaction.. Completion of the Unilever Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various conditions, including the receipt of approval from the company's stockholders and certain regulatory authorities, as well as the absence of any event, change or other circumstances that would give rise to the termination of the transaction agreement or the failure of the transaction to close for any other reason. There can be no assurance that all of the various conditions will be satisfied or waived or that a termination event will not transpire. Further, there can be no assurance as to whether they will be satisfied or waived on the anticipated schedule. Therefore, there can be no assurance as to whether, or when, the Unilever Transaction will be completed.. The outcome of legal proceedings that have been instituted or may be instituted in the future against the company in connection with the Unilever Transaction could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. Since the announcement of the Unilever Transaction, several lawsuits have been filed in which the company, among others, has been named as defendants. These lawsuits allege that the company's directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the transaction by, among other things, agreeing to sell the company for inadequate consideration and on otherwise inappropriate terms and failing to disclose all material information concerning the transaction, and that the company and/or Unilever aided and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by the company's directors. The lawsuits seek, among other things, injunctive relief, including the enjoining of the transaction, damages and recovery of the costs of the action, including reasonable attorneys' fees.. The announcement and pending nature of the company's agreement to be acquired by Unilever could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. The announcement and pending nature of the Unilever Transaction could cause disruptions in the company's business, including affecting its relationships with customers, vendors and employees and diverting the attention of its management team, which could have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial results and operations. Further, the Unilever Transaction agreement includes certain restrictions on the company's freedom to operate its business prior to the closing of the transaction, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to pursue certain activities that it might otherwise view as advisable.. The failure to complete the Unilever Transaction could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. There is no assurance that the Unilever Transaction will occur. If the proposed transaction or a similar transaction is not completed, the share price of the company's common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of the common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, the company has incurred certain costs relating to the Unilever Transaction that are payable whether or not the transaction is completed, including legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees and, under circumstances defined in the Unilever Transaction agreement, the company may be required to pay a termination fee of $125 million. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of the company in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to the company's business resulting from the announcement and pending nature of the Unilever Transaction, including any adverse changes in the company's relationships with customers, vendors and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed. 8. transaction. There can be no assurance that the company's business, these relationships or the company's financial condition will not be adversely affected in a material way, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the Unilever Transaction, if the transaction is not consummated.. Risks Related to the Company's Business and Operations. The failure of the company to effectively anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company's continued success depends in large part on its ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and other consumer products. The company must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of its brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine its approach as to how and where it markets and sells its products. While the company devotes considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer spending patterns and preferences are difficult to predict and can change rapidly. If the company is unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and other consumer products and changing consumer demands, its business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer.. Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for the company's products, including changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences, could result in the company being unable to sell products (i) in sufficient quantities or (ii) at anticipated prices. In addition, these shifts and changes could result in increased product returns by the company's customers and excess inventory levels. To the extent the company experiences one or more of these adverse results, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company's continued success depends on its ability to retain key employees, which include executive officers and other members of the senior management team. The company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. The unexpected loss of one or more key employees for any reason or the company's failure to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the United States and in its international markets. Most of the company's products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category. The company also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national concerns. The company's products generally compete on the basis of:. <U+0095>    specific benefits to consumers;. <U+0095>    marketing (including advertising, promotion, merchandising, packaging and trade spending);. <U+0095>    product quality; and. <U+0095>    price.. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion. If a product gains consumer. 9. acceptance, it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Many of the company's competitors are larger, more diversified and have financial resources greater than those of the company and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the company. In addition, the company's competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering similar products at prices at or below those typically offered by the company. Competitive pricing may require the company to reduce prices and could lead to a reduction in its sales or its profit margins. If the company is unable to compete effectively, such failure could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales, and the loss of any of these customers or a material reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the company's net sales. The company's largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies, accounted for approximately 24%, 25% and 24% of net sales during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, the company's five largest customers accounted for approximately 37%, 39% and 35% of net sales, respectively. The company expects that a significant portion of its net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of the company's largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, could materially harm the company's net sales and profitability.. In addition, the company's business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and the company rarely enters into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the company at any time and for any reason. If the company loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect the company's margins and results of operations.. In recent years, the company has experienced a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drug store channels toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the company does not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from the company, causing the company's sales and profitability to materially decline.. The failure of the company to improve its margins through efficiency initiatives, as well as cost increases for or availability of raw materials and/or packaging, could materially affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company has taken a number of measures to increase the efficiency of the business as well as to improve the company's profit margins. For example, the company has closed three manufacturing facilities and opened a major manufacturing facility in Jonesboro, Arkansas over the last three years. In addition, in November 2009 the company committed to a plan to cease all manufacturing at its facility in Chatsworth, California. The failure of the Jonesboro facility to provide the anticipated operating efficiencies, including delays in its ability to handle increasing manufacturing demands, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10. The company manufactures and packages a majority of its products. The principal raw materials and packaging used by the company include essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components. The cost of many of the company's raw materials and packaging components are somewhat correlated to the price of crude oil and, as a result, can fluctuate as the price of crude oil fluctuates. Increases in the costs of these or other raw materials and packaging used in the company's business may materially and adversely affect the company's profit margins if it is unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. The company purchases raw materials and packaging for its products from various suppliers. The loss of one or more suppliers, a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain, or demand exceeding supply for certain raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of the company's products.. The disruption of the company's normal business activities as a result of the implementation of a new worldwide ERP system could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company implemented a major new information system in the United Kingdom in fiscal year 2009 and in the United States in fiscal year 2010. The new system is expected to improve access to and consistency of information, enable standardization of business activities, help deliver business process improvements and support business growth. The inability of the new system to work as anticipated could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company's business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company's international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Approximately 41% of the company's net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2010. Its primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the U.S. dollar versus the British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Argentine peso, Chilean peso and South African rand. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which the company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market and the relative prices at which the company purchases materials and services in foreign markets. Although the company hedges some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, it cannot ensure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company's business could be adversely affected by a prolonged downturn or recession in the United States and/or the other countries in which it conducts business.. A prolonged economic downturn or recession in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico or any of the other countries in which Alberto Culver does significant business could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, such a downturn or recession could adversely impact (i) the level of spending by the company's ultimate consumers, (ii) the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers, (iii) the ability of certain suppliers to fill the company's orders for raw materials, packaging or co-packed finished goods on a timely basis and (iv) the mix of the company's product sales.. If the company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, specifically its trademarks, its ability to compete could be negatively impacted.. The market for the company's products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with its trademarks and brand names, including \"TRESemmé,\" \"Alberto VO5,\" \"St. Ives,\" \"Nexxus,\" \"Simple\" and \"Noxzema.\" The company owns the trademarks, trade dress and brand name rights used in connection with. 11. marketing and distribution of its major products both in the United States and in other countries. Although most of the company's material intellectual property is registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which it operates, it may not be successful in asserting trademark, trade dress or brand name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the company's intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect the company's trademarks, trade dress and brand names is expected to continue to be substantial. The loss or dilution of any of its significant trademarks, trade dress and brand names in any jurisdiction where the company conducts a material portion of its business or where the company plans geographic expansion could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of the company to expand in existing geographic locations or enter new geographic locations could have a material adverse effect on the growth of the company's business, sales and results of operations.. The company's ability to continue to grow its sales and profits is dependent on expanding in the locations in which it already does business and entering into new geographic locations, both of which would require significant resources and investments which would affect the company's risk profile. The failure to successfully enter into or expand its business in such locations could materially affect the growth of the company's business, sales and results of operations.. Any future acquisitions and strategic alliances may expose the company to additional risks.. The company frequently reviews acquisition prospects and other strategic alliances that would complement its current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of its operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of the company stockholders, result in an increase in its indebtedness or both. Acquisitions and other strategic alliances may entail numerous risks which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations, including:. <U+0095>    difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses;. <U+0095>    undisclosed liabilities that may become the company's responsibility or other undisclosed material information (subject to any rights the company may have against the seller);. <U+0095>    diversion of management's attention from the company's core business;. <U+0095>    compliance with foreign regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>    enforcement of new intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>    adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. <U+0095>    operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability;. <U+0095>    entering markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience; and. <U+0095>    general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by U.S. companies in particular.. The company's failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business or strategic alliance could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to identify suitable candidates or consummate acquisitions or strategic alliances on favorable terms, which could materially affect the growth of the company's business and results of operations.. 12. Product liability and other types of product claims could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the company's products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, are mislabeled or provide inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability and other types of product claims could result in negative publicity that could materially harm the company's sales and operating results. In addition, if any of the company's products is found to be defective or mislabeled, the company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy.. The company's ability to conduct business in or import products from international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.. Approximately 41% of the company's net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2010. The company's ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to grow or maintain the current level of operations in its existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include:. <U+0095>    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and. <U+0095>    new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets.. The company is also subject to political and economic risks in connection with its international operations, including:. <U+0095>    political instability;. <U+0095>    changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and. <U+0095>    economic fluctuations, including recessions, in specific markets.. The company cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union or other countries upon the import or export of its products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the company's business in the future or may require it to modify its current business practices, which could be very costly.. Environmental matters create potential liability risks.. The company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of liquid and solid hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The company handles and transports hazardous substances at its plant sites. A release of such chemicals due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities and/or to third parties. The company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations.. Changes to the legal and regulatory requirements could materially and adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations.. The manufacture, distribution, sale, packaging, and labeling of consumer products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and abroad. The company's ability to comply with these regulations and any. 13. changes to these regulations without significant cost or liability is critical to its ongoing success. The company's inability to efficiently comply with these regulations could adversely and materially impact its financial condition and results of operations.. The company is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash.. The company is a holding company and does not have any assets or operations other than ownership of its subsidiaries. The company's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, its subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the company's subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to the company for payment of dividends.. Risks Related to the Separation. If the distribution of New Alberto Culver shares as part of the Separation does not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then New Alberto Culver or New Sally (pursuant to a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation) and Alberto Culver stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes.. The completion of the New Alberto Culver share distribution was conditioned upon the receipt of (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto Culver, in each case, to the effect that the contribution of the company to New Alberto Culver and the New Alberto Culver share distribution will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and a distribution eligible for non-recognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel was based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto Culver, New Sally and representatives of the Lavin family stockholders (Ms. Carol L. Bernick, Chairman of the company's Board of Directors, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin, a director of the company, and a partnership and trusts established for the benefit of specified members of the Lavin family), as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position.. If the New Alberto Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally, as the successor to Alberto Culver under the Internal Revenue Code, would recognize a taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New Alberto Culver common stock distributed to the New Sally stockholders over New Sally's tax basis in the New Alberto Culver common stock. In addition, each New Sally stockholder who received New Alberto Culver common stock in the New Alberto Culver share distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution to the extent of earnings and profits of New Sally in an amount equal to the fair market value of the New Alberto Culver common stock received.. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution because the New Alberto Culver share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto Culver would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement between New Sally, Sally Holdings, New Alberto Culver and Alberto Culver, New Alberto Culver will generally be required to indemnify New Sally against any such tax liabilities unless such failure results solely from an act of New Sally or its affiliates (including Investor), subject to specified exceptions, after the New Alberto Culver share distribution.. 14. The distribution of New Alberto Culver shares may be taxable to New Sally and New Alberto Culver if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto Culver's or New Sally's outstanding common stock.. Even if the New Alberto Culver share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of New Alberto Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally, as the successor to Alberto Culver under the Internal Revenue Code (but not Alberto Culver stockholders), if there is an acquisition of stock of New Alberto Culver or New Sally as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock.. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of New Alberto Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to New Sally under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of New Alberto Culver or New Sally within two years before or after the New Alberto Culver share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the investment by Investor will be treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Under the terms of the investment agreement, Investor acquired approximately 47.55% of New Sally common stock on a fully diluted basis and 48.0% on a basic shares outstanding method (which is the percentage likely to be used for purposes of this test). Thus, a relatively minor additional change in the ownership of the New Sally common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for New Sally under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (for which New Alberto Culver may be required to indemnify New Sally under a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation).. The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If New Alberto Culver or New Sally does not carefully monitor its compliance with these rules, it might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of New Sally or of New Alberto Culver to occur, thereby triggering New Alberto Culver's or New Sally's respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to a tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto Culver. New Sally will be primarily liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that New Alberto Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New Alberto Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party.. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto Culver share distribution, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto Culver would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement between New Sally, Sally Holdings, New Alberto Culver and Alberto Culver, New Alberto Culver will generally be required to indemnify New Sally against any such tax liabilities unless such liability results solely from an act of New Sally or its affiliates (including Investor), subject to specified exceptions, after the New Alberto Culver share distribution.. Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by Investor could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto Culver share distribution.. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto Culver common stock after completion of the Separation (or stock of Alberto Culver before the Separation) may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto Culver share distribution. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto Culver common stock at any time after completion of the New Alberto Culver share distribution might be considered evidence that the New. 15. Alberto Culver share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder were found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the New Alberto Culver share distribution. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the New Alberto Culver share distribution was used principally as such a device, the New Alberto Culver share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to both New Sally and the New Sally stockholders (as a result of which New Alberto Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation). Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders were to sell an amount of New Sally common stock that it received in the holding company merger (or to acquire additional shares of New Sally common stock) following completion of the New Alberto Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the New Sally common stock acquired by Investor (which comprised approximately 48.0% of the New Sally common stock on a basic shares outstanding method), were to equal or exceed 50% of the outstanding common stock of New Sally, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution could be asserted by the Internal Revenue Service. If this assertion were not successfully rebutted, New Sally would be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and New Alberto Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto Culver. Similar principles would apply to sales or acquisitions of Alberto Culver stock by the Lavin family before the Separation.. Similarly, acquisitions by the Investor or its affiliates of New Sally common stock after completion of the Separation may cause a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto Culver share distribution.. Under U.S. federal bankruptcy laws or comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, stockholders could be required to return all or a portion of the cash and shares received in the distributions.. If New Sally was insolvent or rendered insolvent as a result of the New Alberto Culver share distribution or the special cash dividend, or if Sally Holdings was insolvent or rendered insolvent either as a result of the incurrence of the indebtedness or the ultimate dividend/transfer of the proceeds of such indebtedness to New Sally, there is a risk that a creditor (or a creditor representative) of New Sally could bring fraudulent transfer claims to recover all or a portion of the special cash dividend and the New Alberto Culver common stock received in the New Alberto Culver share distribution and that the persons receiving such distributions would be required to return all or a portion of such distributions if such claims were successful. New Sally received opinions of a valuation firm with respect to its and its subsidiaries' solvency at the time it declared the distributions and at the time the distributions were made."
