[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of such risks or the risks described below, either alone or taken together, occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions pertaining to the market for our products that, if incorrect, may adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We allocate our design, development, marketing, management and financial resources based on our business plan, which includes assumptions about various demographic trends and trends in the treatment of spine disorders and the resulting demand for our products. However, these trends are uncertain. There can be no assurance that our assumptions with respect to an aging population with broad medical coverage and longer life expectancy, which we expect to lead to increased spinal injuries and degeneration, are accurate. In addition, an increasing awareness and use of non-invasive means for the prevention and treatment of back pain and rehabilitation purposes may reduce demand for, or slow the growth of sales of, spine fusion products. A significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of back pain or damaged or diseased bone and tissue could adversely affect demand for some or all of our products. For example, pharmaceutical advances could result in non-surgical treatments gaining more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to spine fusion. The emergence of new biological or synthetic materials to facilitate regeneration of damaged or diseased bone and to repair damaged tissue could increasingly minimize or delay the need for spine fusion surgery and provide other biological alternatives to spine fusion. New surgical procedures could diminish demand for some of our products. The increased acceptance of emerging technologies that do not require spine fusion, such as artificial discs and nucleus replacement, for the surgical treatment of spine disorders would reduce demand for, or slow the growth of sales of, spine fusion products. If our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain further acceptance, then demand for our products could be significantly less than we anticipate and we may not be able to achieve or sustain growth or profitability.. We are in a highly competitive market segment, face competition from large, well-established medical device companies with significant resources, and may not be able to compete effectively.. The market for spine fusion products and procedures is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In 2016, a significant percentage of global spine implant product revenues was generated by Medtronic Sofamor Danek, a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.; Depuy Spine, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson; and Stryker Spine. Our competitors also include numerous other publicly-traded and privately-held companies such as NuVasive, Zimmer, Biomet, Globus, K2M Medical and SeaSpine.. Several of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, including:. •  more established relationships with spine surgeons;. •  more established distribution networks;. •  broader spine surgery product offerings;. •  stronger intellectual property portfolios;. •  greater financial and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation;. •  greater experience in, and resources for, launching, marketing, distributing and selling products;. •  significantly greater name recognition as well as more recognizable trademarks for products similar to the products that we sell;. •  more established relationships with healthcare providers and payors;. •  products supported by more extensive clinical data; and. •  greater experience in obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals for products and product enhancements.. 15. In addition, at any time our current competitors or other companies may develop alternative treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of spine disorders that compete directly or indirectly with our products, including ones that prove to be superior to our spine surgery products. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors. Any such failure could lead us to modify our strategy, lower our prices, increase the commissions we pay on sales of our products and have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The sale of our international distribution operations and agreements will reduce our revenue, and we may not be successful in executing on our business strategy to solely focus on the U.S. marketplace.. Prior to the sale of our International operations in September 2016, our international revenue represented approximately 35% of our total revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and year ended December 31, 2015. Following the closing of the Globus Transaction, our revenues have been and will continue to be materially reduced as we will no longer be generating the same level of revenue from the operations and assets sold in the transaction. There can be no assurance that the proceeds from the Globus Transaction will be sufficient for us to grow our U.S. business.  In addition, our future growth will depend on our ability to successfully implement our strategy to focus solely on the U.S. marketplace.  If we are unable to successfully execute on this business strategy or otherwise compete effectively within the U.S. marketplace, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects would be materially and adversely affected.. We may face indemnity and other liability claims pursuant to the Globus Purchase and Sale Agreement.. Under the purchase and sale agreement for the sale of our international business to Globus, we are obligated to indemnify Globus against damages arising from, among other things, breaches of our representations, warranties or obligations under the agreement and liabilities not assumed by Globus. The indemnification period generally runs for a period of 18 months from the Closing, with longer survival periods for certain specified representations and warranties. Our indemnification obligations are subject to a deductible in certain cases of $500,000, and our aggregate liability under such indemnification claims is generally limited to $12.0 million, $20.0 million for certain specified representations and warranties, and the full purchase price for breaches of certain specified representations and warranties, breaches of covenants and certain other matters. If Globus makes an indemnification claim, we may incur liability and/or expenses, which could harm our operating results. In addition, such indemnity claims may divert management attention from our continuing business.. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from the sale of our systems that include polyaxial pedicle screws.. Net sales of our systems that include polyaxial pedicle screws represented approximately 52% and 50% of our net sales for 2017 and 2016, respectively. A decline in sales of these systems, due to lower market demand, the introduction by a third party of a competitive product, an intellectual property dispute involving these systems, or otherwise, would have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the technology related to our polyaxial pedicle screw systems is licensed to us. Any action that would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling our polyaxial pedicle screw systems would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales and marketing efforts are largely dependent upon third parties, many of which are free to market products that compete with our products.. Many of our independent distributors also market and sell the products of our competitors, and those competitors may have the ability to influence the products that our independent distributors choose to market and sell. Our competitors may be able, by offering higher commission payments or otherwise, to convince our independent distributors to terminate their relationships with us, carry fewer of our products or reduce their sales and marketing efforts for our products.. If pricing pressures cause us to decrease prices for our goods and services and we are unable to compensate for such reductions through changes in our product mix or reductions to our expenses, our results of operations will suffer.. We have experienced and may continue to experience decreasing prices for our goods and services we offer due to pricing pressure exerted by our customers in response to increased cost containment efforts from managed care organizations and other third-party payors and increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates. If we are unable to offset such price reductions through changes in our product mix or reductions in our expenses, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected.. 16. To be commercially successful, we must convince the spine surgeon community that our products are an attractive alternative to our competitors' products. If the spine surgeon community does not use our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase our sales and generate profits.. In order for us to sell our products, surgeons must be convinced that our products are superior to competing products. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the spine surgeon community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to our competitors' products and on training surgeons in the proper application of our products. If we are not successful in convincing the spine surgeon community of the merit of our products, our sales will decline and we will be unable to increase or achieve and sustain growth or profitability.. There is a learning process involved for spine surgeons to become proficient in the use of our products. Although most spine surgeons may have adequate knowledge on how to use most of our products based on their clinical training and experience, we believe that the most effective way to introduce and build market demand for our products is by directly training spine surgeons in the use of our products. If surgeons are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We must retain the current distributors of our products and attract new distributors of our products.. We plan to increase our network of independent distributors. The establishment and development of a broader distribution network may be expensive and time consuming. Because of the intense competition for their services, we may be unable to recruit or retain additional qualified independent distributors. Often, our competitors enter into distribution agreements with independent distributors that require such distributors to exclusively sell the products of our competitors. Further, we may not be able to enter into agreements with independent distributors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we do enter into agreements with additional independent distributors, it often takes 90 to 120 days for new distributors to reach full operational effectiveness and such distributors may not generate revenue as quickly as we expect them to, commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products or ultimately be successful in selling our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we do not retain our existing independent distributors and attract new, additional independent distributors or if the marketing and sales efforts of our independent distributors and our own direct sales representatives are unsuccessful.. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply our products. Any problems experienced by any of these manufacturers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of our products to us until such manufacturer cures the problem or until we locate and qualify an alternative source of supply.. We rely on third party suppliers for the manufacture of our implants and instruments. We currently rely on a limited number of third party suppliers and any prolonged disruption in the operations of our third party suppliers could have a significant negative impact on our ability to supply our products to customers and to perform our obligations under the Supply Agreement with Globus, and would cause us to seek additional third-party manufacturing contracts, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed coverage under our manufacturer's insurance policies. Events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations by disrupting our product development and commercialization efforts until such third-party supplier can repair its facility or put in place third-party contract manufacturers to assume this manufacturing role, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we are required to change manufacturers for any reason, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer or the re-verification of an existing manufacturer could negatively affect our ability to develop products or supply products to customers in a timely manner. Any disruption in the manufacture of our products by our third party suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on various third-party suppliers, and in one case a single third-party supplier, for key raw materials used in the manufacturing processes for our products and the loss of any of these third-party suppliers, or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials, could harm our business.. We use a number of raw materials, including titanium, titanium alloys, stainless steel, PEEK, and human tissue. We rely from time to time on a number of suppliers and in one case on a single source vendor, Invibio. We have a supply agreement with Invibio, pursuant to which it supplies us with PEEK, a biocompatible plastic that we use in some of our spacers. Invibio is one of a limited number of companies approved to distribute PEEK in the U.S. for use in implantable devices. During 2017 and 2016, approximately 19% and 20% of our revenues were derived from products manufactured using PEEK, respectively.. 17. We depend on a limited number of sources of human tissue for use in our biologics products, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources or to have the tissue processed by these entities for us in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to meet demand for our biologics products effectively. The processing of human tissue into biologics products is labor intensive and it is therefore difficult to maintain a steady supply stream. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues used for our biologics products are at times in particularly short supply. We cannot be certain that our supply of human tissue from our current suppliers and our current inventory of biologics products will be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs.. Our dependence on a single third-party PEEK supplier and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of biologics products involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. In addition, any supply interruption in a limited or sole sourced component or raw material, such as PEEK or human tissue, could materially harm the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our tissue-based products and related technologies could become subject to significantly greater regulation by the FDA, which could disrupt our business.. The FDA regulates human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products or HCT/Ps, but the extent to which they are regulated depends on how they are manufactured and used and whether they meet other criteria for minimal regulation. These criteria include but are not limited to the use of the HCT/Ps for homologous use only and minimal manipulation of the HCT/Ps. These HCT/Ps are regulated by the FDA solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and are referred to as \"Section 361 HCT/Ps,\" while other HCT/Ps are subject to FDA's regulatory requirements applicable to medical devices or biologics. Section 361 HCT/Ps do not require 510(k) clearance, PMA approval, licensure of a biologics license application, or BLA, or other premarket authorization from FDA before marketing. We believe our HCT/Ps are regulated solely under Section 361 of the PHSA, and therefore, we have not sought or obtained 510(k) clearance, PMA approval, or licensure through a BLA. The FDA could disagree with our determination that our tissue-based products are Section 361 HCT/Ps and could determine that these products are biologics requiring a BLA or medical devices requiring 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, and could require that we cease marketing such products and/or recall them pending appropriate clearance, approval or license from the FDA. If the FDA determines that any of our current or future products contain HCT/Ps that do not meet the criteria for regulation as a Section 361 HCT/P, it could subject some of our products to additional review and regulatory oversight. If this were to happen, further distribution of the affected products could be interrupted for a substantial period of time, which would reduce our revenues and hurt our profitability.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA's quality system and good tissue practice regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed.. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's QSR, which covers, among other things, the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, record keeping, storage and shipping of our products. In addition, suppliers and processors of products derived from HCT must comply with the FDA's current good tissue practice requirements, or cGTPs, which govern the methods used in and the facilities and controls used for the manufacture of HCT/Ps, record keeping and the establishment of a quality program. The FDA audits compliance with the QSR and cGTPs through inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. If we or our suppliers have significant non-compliance issues or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, we or our suppliers could be forced to halt the manufacture of our products until such problems are corrected to the FDA's satisfaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our products could be subject to recall if the FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective. Any recall or FDA requirement demanding that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in delays, costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Healthcare policy changes, including recent federal legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us.. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products, limit the acceptance and availability of our products, and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. An expansion in government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for procedures using our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially.. The demand for products and the prices at which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products depend upon the ability of our customers to obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for their purchases of our products.. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental and private payors. In the U.S., healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with the use of our products. In addition, several million individuals were able to purchase health insurance in 2014 for the first time through health insurance \"exchanges\" established under the ACA. While procedures using our currently marketed products are eligible for reimbursement in the U.S., if surgical procedures utilizing our products are performed on an outpatient basis, it is possible that private payors may no longer provide reimbursement for the procedures using our products without further supporting data on the procedure. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, adequate coverage or reimbursement for procedures using our products could significantly affect the acceptance of our products and have a significant adverse effect on our business. Additionally, third-party payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Our business would be negatively impacted if there are any changes that reduce reimbursement for our products.. Furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to contain these costs. Several such proposals were enacted as part of ACA, and include numerous provisions to limit Medicare spending through reductions in various fee schedule payments and sweeping payment reforms. Other federal and state cost-control measures include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to major surgery, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. Some healthcare providers in the U.S. have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may also attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. These cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. In addition, in the U.S., no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly from payor to payor. The continuing efforts of third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside or outside the U.S., to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers' ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures contained in ACA and other measures being considered at the federal and state level, as well as internationally, could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and will continue to become more intense. This in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 19. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws.. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, healthcare regulation by federal and state governments significantly impacts our business. Healthcare fraud and abuse, health information privacy and security, and disclosure laws potentially applicable to our operations include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, as well as state analogs, which constrains our marketing practices and those of our independent sales agents and distributors, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers by prohibiting, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal (or state or commercial) healthcare program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs);. •  the federal ban, as well as state analogs, on physician self-referrals, which prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain \"designated health services\" if the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has any financial relationship with the entity;. •  federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. •  HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •  the state and federal laws \"sunshine\" provisions that require detailed reporting and disclosures to CMS and applicable states of any payments or \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers, and for certain states prohibit some forms of these payments, require the adoption of marketing codes of conduct, require the reporting of marketing expenditures and pricing information and constrain relationships with physicians and other referral sources;. •  state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain health information, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts;. •  the Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA, specifically, privacy and security provisions including recent amendments under HITECH which impose stringent restrictions on uses and disclosures of protected health information such as for marketing or clinical research purposes and impose significant civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance and require the reporting of breaches to affected individuals, the government and in some cases the media in the event of a violation; and. •  a variety of state-imposed privacy and data security laws which require the protection of information beyond health information, such as employee information or any class of information combining name with state issued identification numbers, social security numbers, credit card, bank or other financial information and which require reporting to state officials in the event of breach or violation and which impose both civil and criminal penalties.. ACA includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them.. If our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the healthcare providers, sales agents, distributors or other entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the Courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. 20. The sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, on March 26, 2013 the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert entitled \"Physician-Owned Entities\" related to physician-owned distributors, or PODS. Since 2013, the OIG has further increased its scrutiny of PODs and the Department of Justice has brought several high profile cases against physician owners. Prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight over some major device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has affected and may continue to affect the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. Any precautions we take to detect and prevent noncompliance with applicable laws may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or modifications to our products, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer.. Our medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the devices have received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or 510(k), or are the subject of an approved premarket approval application, or a PMA. The 510(k) process generally takes three to nine months, but can take significantly longer, especially if the FDA requires a clinical trial to support the 510(k) application.  Currently, we do not know whether the FDA will require clinical data in support of any 510(k)s that we intend to submit for other products in our pipeline. In addition, the FDA continues to re-examine its 510(k) clearance process for medical devices and published several draft guidance documents that could change that process. Any changes that make the process more restrictive could increase the time it takes for us to obtain clearances or could make the 510(k) process unavailable for certain of our products. A PMA must be submitted to the FDA if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process or is not exempt from premarket review by the FDA. A PMA must be supported by extensive data, including results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, manufacturing and control data and proposed labeling, to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. The PMA process is more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process, and generally takes between one and three years, if not longer. In addition, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA.. Modifications to products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval. Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k).  Our commercial distribution and marketing of any products or product modifications that we develop will be delayed until regulatory clearance or approval is obtained. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product modifications we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our new products or product modifications may take significantly longer than anticipated. There is no assurance that the FDA will not require a new product or product modification to go through the lengthy and expensive PMA approval process. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including:. •  our inability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable regulatory entity or notified body that our products are safe or effective for their intended uses;. •  the disagreement of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory body with the design or implementation of our clinical trials or the interpretation of data from pre-clinical studies or clinical trials;. •  serious and unexpected adverse device effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials;. •  the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required;. 21. •  our inability to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of the device outweigh the risks;. •  the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; or. •  the potential for approval policies or regulations of the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory bodies to change significantly in a manner rendering our clinical data or regulatory filings insufficient for clearance or approval.. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals may:. •  delay or prevent commercialization of products we develop;. •  require us to perform costly tests or studies;. •  diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise have obtained; and. •  reduce our ability to collect revenues.. To date, all of our non-biologic medical device products that have required FDA review that are being sold in the U.S. have been cleared through the 510(k) process without any required clinical trials. However, the FDA may require clinical data in support of any future 510(k)s or PMAs that we intend to submit for products in our pipeline. We have limited experience in performing clinical trials that might be required for a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. If any of our products require clinical trials, the commercialization of such products could be delayed which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The safety of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought.. We obtained clearance to offer all of our current non-biologic medical device products through the 510(k) route. The ability to obtain a 510(k) clearance is generally based on the FDA's agreement that a new product is substantially equivalent to certain already marketed products. Because most 510(k)-cleared products were not the subject of pre-market clinical trials, surgeons may be slow to adopt our 510(k)-cleared products, we may not have the comparative data that our competitors have or are generating, and we may be subject to greater regulatory and product liability risks. With the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, funds have been appropriated for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Healthcare Research and Quality to conduct comparative effectiveness research to determine the effectiveness of different drugs, medical devices, and procedures in treating certain conditions and diseases. Some of our products or procedures performed with our products could become the subject of such research. It is unknown what effect, if any, this research may have on our business. Further, future research or experience may indicate that treatment with our products does not improve patient outcomes or improves patient outcomes less than we initially expect. Such results would reduce demand for our products and this could cause us to withdraw our products from the market. Moreover, if future research or experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to significant legal liability, significant negative publicity, damage to our reputation and a dramatic reduction in sales of our products, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to comply with post-marketing regulatory requirements could subject us to enforcement actions, including substantial penalties, and might require us to recall or withdraw a product from the market.. Once a medical device is cleared or approved, a manufacturer must notify the FDA of any modifications to the device. Any modification to a device that has received FDA clearance that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, requires premarket clearance or possibly approval of a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination in the first instance regarding whether a modification to a cleared or approved device necessitates the filing of a new 510(k) notification or PMA supplement. The FDA may review any manufacturer's decision and can disagree. If the FDA disagrees with any future determination by us that a new clearance or approval is not required, we may need to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until and unless we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could also be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Any of these outcomes would harm our business.. 22. The regulations to which we are subject are complex and have become more stringent over time. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to continue or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs, or lower than anticipated sales. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations and applicable foreign laws and regulations. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of devices and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. The FDA, state and foreign regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA, state or foreign regulatory authorities, which may include any of the following sanctions:. •  untitled letters or warning letters;. •  fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •  recalls, termination of distribution, administrative detention, or seizure of our products;. •  customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds;. •  operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •  delays in or refusal to grant our requests for future 510(k) clearances, PMA approvals or foreign regulatory approvals of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products;. •  withdrawals or suspensions of current 510(k) clearances or PMAs or foreign regulatory approvals, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products;. •  FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries; and/ or. •  criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the new Presidential administration may impact our business and industry.  Namely, the new Presidential administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications.  Notably, on January 23, 2017, the new Presidential administration ordered a hiring freeze for all executive departments and agencies, including the FDA, which prohibits the FDA from filling employee vacancies or creating new positions.  Under the terms of the order, the freeze will remain in effect until implementation of a plan to be recommended by the Director for the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, to reduce the size of the federal workforce through attrition. An under-staffed FDA could result in delays in FDA's responsiveness or in its ability to review submissions or applications, issue regulations or guidance, or implement or enforce regulatory requirements in a timely fashion or at all.  Moreover, on January 30, 2017, the new Presidential administration issued an Executive Order, applicable to all executive agencies, including the FDA, that requires that for each notice of proposed rulemaking or final regulation to be issued in fiscal year 2017, the agency shall identify at least two existing regulations to be repealed, unless prohibited by law.  These requirements are referred to as the \"two-for-one\" provisions. This Executive Order includes a budget neutrality provision that requires the total incremental cost of all new regulations in the 2017 fiscal year, including repealed regulations, to be no greater than zero, except in limited circumstances.  For fiscal years 2018 and beyond, the Executive Order requires agencies to identify regulations to offset any incremental cost of a new regulation and approximate the total costs or savings associated with each new regulation or repealed regulation.  In interim guidance issued by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within OMB on February 2, 2017, the administration indicates that the \"two-for-one\" provisions may apply not only to agency regulations, but also to significant agency guidance documents.  In addition, on February 24, 2017, the new Presidential administration issued an executive order directing each affected agency to designate an agency official as  a \"Regulatory Reform Officer\" and establish  a \"Regulatory Reform Task Force\" to implement the two-for-one provisions and other previously issued executive orders relating to the review of federal regulations, however it is difficult to predict how these requirements will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority.  If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. 23. If we choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or successfully integrate them in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner.. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offering in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies and our ability to increase our market share. Accordingly, we have pursued and intend to pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our business or retain any key personnel, suppliers or distributors. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. If we are unable to integrate any future or recently acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. For example, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize significant amounts of expenses, including non-cash acquisition costs, and acquired assets.. We may not be able to timely develop new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market.. We sell our products in a market that is characterized by technological change, product innovation, evolving industry standards, competing patent claims, patent litigation and intense competition. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements or modifications to our existing products, which we will need to do before our competitors do so and in a manner that does not infringe issued patents of third parties from which we do not have a license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop or market new, improved or modified products, or that any of our future products will be accepted by even the surgeons who use our current products. Our competitors' product development capabilities could be more effective than our capabilities, and their new products may get to market before our products. In addition, the products of our competitors may be more effective or less expensive than our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors may lead us to have price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. The success of any of our new product offerings or enhancement or modification to our existing products will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. •  properly identify and anticipate surgeon and patient needs;. •  develop new products or enhancements in a timely manner;. •  obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new products or product enhancements;. •  provide adequate training to potential users of new products;. •  receive adequate reimbursement approval of third-party payors such as Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers; and. •  develop an effective marketing and distribution network.. Developing products in a timely manner can be difficult, in particular because product designs change rapidly to adjust to third-party patent constraints and to market preferences. As a result, we may experience delays in our product launches which may significantly impede our ability to enter or compete in a given market and may reduce the sales that we are able to generate from these products. We may experience delays in any phase of a product launch, including during research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and the surgeon training process. In addition, our suppliers of products or components can suffer similar delays, which could cause delays in our product introductions. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these new products or enhancements, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on our senior management team, sales and marketing team, engineering team and key surgeon advisors, and the loss of any of them could harm our business.. Our continued success depends in part upon the continued availability and contributions of our senior management, sales and marketing team and engineering team and the continued participation of our key surgeon advisors. While we have entered into employment agreements with all members of our senior management team, none of these agreements guarantees the services of the individual for a specified period of time. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately prepare for future turnover of our senior management team. Our ability to grow or at least maintain our sales levels depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain sales and marketing personnel and for these sales people to maintain their relationships with surgeons directly and through our distributors. We rely on our engineering team to research, design and develop potential products for our product pipeline. We also rely on our surgeon advisors to advise us on our products, our product pipeline, long-term scientific planning, research and development and industry trends. We compete for personnel and advisors with other companies and other organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. We recently implemented numerous changes in our. 24. management team, including in the roles of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, People & Culture, and General Counsel, which could have an adverse effect on our retention of our employees, advisors and distributors.  Changes to our senior management team, sales and marketing team, engineering team and key surgeon advisors, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Compliance with laws and regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure is time consuming and results in significant expenses.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, other SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market listing rules, and new accounting pronouncements create uncertainty and additional complexities for companies such as ours.  Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives.  Moreover these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information and therefore be subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Select Market, an investigation by the SEC, and civil or criminal sanctions. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting would place us at increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and could cause our stockholders, lenders, suppliers and others to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports.  This, in turn could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information or expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including legally protected patient health information, credit card information, personally identifiable information about our employees, intellectual property, and proprietary business information. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing on-site systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business critical information including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, viruses, breaches or interruptions due to employee error or malfeasance, terrorist attacks, earthquakes, fire, flood, other natural disasters, power loss, computer systems failure, data network failure, Internet failure, or lapses in compliance with privacy and security mandates. Any such attack, virus, breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. We have measures in place that are designed to detect and respond to such security incidents and breaches of privacy and security mandates. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, such as HIPAA, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also interrupt our operations, including our ability to bill our customers, provide customer support services, conduct research and development activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Nearly all of our operations are currently conducted in locations that may be at risk of damage from fire, earthquakes or other natural disasters.. We currently conduct nearly all of our development and management activities in Carlsbad, California near known wildfire areas and earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining property and casualty insurance, and implementing health and safety protocols. We have developed an information technology disaster recovery plan. However, any future natural disaster, such as a fire or an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our facilities would be difficult to replace and would require substantial lead time to repair or replace. The insurance we maintain against earthquakes, fires, and other natural disasters would not be adequate to cover a total loss of our facilities, may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. 25. Alphatec Holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless it receives dividends or other payments from its subsidiaries, it will be unable to fulfill its cash obligations.. As a holding company with no business operations, Alphatec Holdings' material assets consist only of the common stock of its subsidiaries, dividends and other payments received from time to time from its subsidiaries, and the proceeds raised from the sale of debt and equity securities. Alphatec Holdings' subsidiaries are legally distinct from Alphatec Holdings and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to Alphatec Holdings. Alphatec Holdings will have to rely upon dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its cash obligations. Alphatec Holdings may not be able to access cash generated by its subsidiaries in order to fulfill cash commitments. The ability of Alphatec Spine to make dividend and other payments to Alphatec Holdings is subject to the availability of funds after taking into account its subsidiaries' funding requirements, the terms of its subsidiaries' indebtedness and applicable state laws.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. We will continue to pursue growth in the number of surgeons using our products, the types of products we offer and the geographic regions where our products are sold. Such anticipated growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional personnel. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these anticipated growth activities. We are currently focused on increasing the size and effectiveness of our sales force and distribution network, marketing activities, research and development efforts, inventory management systems, management team and corporate infrastructure. If we do not manage our anticipated growth effectively, the quality of our products, our relationships with physicians, distributors and hospitals, and our reputation could suffer, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must attract and retain qualified personnel and third-party distributors and manage and train them effectively. Personnel qualified in the design, development, production and marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of information technology systems to support our growth are difficult to implement. We will also need to carefully monitor and manage our surgeon services, our third-party manufacturing resources, quality assurance and efficiency, and the quality assurance and efficiency of our suppliers and distributors. This managing, training and monitoring will require allocation of valuable management resources and significant expense. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate and/or grow revenues could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results, Credit and Certain Financial Obligations and Need for Financing. We may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. At December 31, 2017, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash of $22.5 million and accounts receivable, net of $14.8 million.  Together with the proceeds of our $45.2 million private placement and up to $4.8 million warrant financing in March 2018, we currently estimate this will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations through at least the next 12 months.. We may seek additional funds from public and private equity or debt financings, borrowings under new debt facilities or other sources to fund our projected operating requirements. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  the payments due in connection with the settlement of the Orthotec matter;. •  the revenues generated by sales of our products;. •  the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts;. •  the expenses that we incur from the manufacture of our products by third parties and that we incur from selling our products;. •  the costs of developing new products or technologies;. •  the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA or other regulatory approval or clearance for our products and products in development;. •  the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights;. •  the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions;. •  the costs and any payments we may make related to our pending litigation matters;. 26. •  the costs associated with increased capital expenditures; and. •  the costs associated with our employee retention programs and related benefits.. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. However, under the securities purchase agreement we entered into in connection with March 2018 private placement, we are prohibited from issuing or entering into any agreement to issue any shares of our common stock or other securities, subject to certain permitted exceptions, until the later of (a) 90 days after the effective date of the resale registration statement we are required to file registering the resale of the shares of common stock issued or issuable in the private placement or (b) the date of stockholder approval of the March 2017 private placement.  In addition, rules and regulations of the SEC may restrict our ability to conduct certain types of financing activities, or may affect the timing of and the amounts we can raise by undertaking such activities. For example, under current SEC regulations, at any time during which the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or our public float, is less than $75 million, the amount that we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using one or more registration statements on Form S-3 will be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. As of March 2, 2018, our public float was $41 million.. In addition, pursuant to the resale registration statement we filed and plan to file in connection with our private placement in March 2018 private placement, and our acquisition of SafeOp, the issuance of additional shares will result in dilution to our existing stockholders.. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to repay debt or other liabilities, develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals and have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we default on our obligations to make settlement payments to Orthotec LLC, the amounts due under the settlement agreements accelerate and become due and payable.. Any default of our payment obligation under the settlement agreements we entered into with Orthotec LLC, or Orthotec, would give Orthotec the right to declare all of the future payments to be immediately payable. As of March 2, 2018, the outstanding amount to be paid to Orthotec through January 2024 including future interest was $24.9 million. If acceleration of payments occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We have a history of net losses, we expect to continue to incur net losses in the near future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We have typically incurred net losses from our continuing operations since our inception. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $459.5 million. We have incurred significant net losses since inception and have relied on our ability to fund our operations through revenues from the sale of our products, equity financings and debt financings. As we have incurred losses, successful transition to profitability is dependent upon achieving a level of revenues adequate to support our cost structure. This may not occur and, unless and until it does, we will continue to need to raise additional capital.  We may seek additional funds from public and private equity or debt financings, borrowings under new debt facilities or other sources to fund our projected operating requirements.  However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain further financing, or do so on reasonable terms. If we are unable to raise additional funds on a timely basis, or at all, we would be materially adversely affected.. 27. We may be unable to comply with the covenants of our credit facilities.. We must comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, in our Amended Credit Facility and affirmative and negative covenants under the Globus Facility Agreement. We failed to comply with the fixed charge coverage ratio for January and June 2016, the fixed charge coverage ratio, senior leverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants for March 2016, and the fixed charge coverage ratio and total leverage ratio covenants for April and May 2016, under our Amended Credit Facility. We also did not meet a minimum requirement for the percentage of our total cash held in U.S. accounts for January, February, March, April, May and June 2016. MidCap and Deerfield, pursuant to the Deerfield Facility Agreement which has been terminated, provided waivers with respect to our non-compliance during such periods. There can be no assurance that at all times in the future we will satisfy all such financial or other covenants of the Amended Credit Facility or the Globus Facility Agreement, or obtain any required waiver or amendment, in which event of default the lenders party to the Amended Credit Facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and MidCap and/or Globus could require all amounts borrowed under the Amended Credit Facility and/or the Globus Facility Agreement, respectively, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition to allowing the lenders to accelerate the loan, several events of default under the Amended Credit Facility or Globus Facility Agreement, such as our failure to make required payments of principal and interest and the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events, could require us to pay interest at a rate which is up to five percentage points higher than the interest rate effective immediately before the event of default.. An event of default under the Amended Credit Facility or the Globus Facility Agreement could have a material adverse effect on us. Upon an event of default, if the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility or Globus Facility Agreement accelerate the repayment of all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and other fees, or if the lenders elect to charge us additional interest, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash available to repay the amounts due, and we may be forced to seek to amend the terms of the Amended Credit Facility or the Globus Facility Agreement or obtain alternative financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.. In addition, if we fail to pay amounts when due under the Amended Credit Facility or the Globus Facility Agreement or upon the occurrence of another event of default, the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility or the Globus Facility Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them pursuant to the MidCap Amended Credit Facility and the Globus Facility Agreement. We have granted to the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, including all accounts receivable and all securities evidencing our interests in our subsidiaries, as collateral under the Amended Credit Facility. We have granted Globus under the Globus Facility Agreement a first lien security interest in substantially all of our assets, other than accounts receivable and related assets, which will secure the Globus Facility Agreement on a second lien basis. If Globus proceeds against the collateral, such assets would no longer be available for use in our business, which would have a significant adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our quarterly financial results could fluctuate significantly.. Our quarterly financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because our sales prospects are uncertain. The level of our revenues and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors:. •  acceptance of our products by surgeons, patients, hospitals and third-party payors;. •  demand and pricing of our products;. •  the mix of our products sold, because profit margins differ among our products;. •  timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors;. •  our ability to grow and maintain a productive sales and marketing organization and independent distributor network;. •  regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors;. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments;. •  levels of third-party reimbursement for our products;. •  interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products;. •  our ability to produce or obtain products of satisfactory quality or in sufficient quantities to meet demand; and. •  changes in our ability to obtain FDA, state and international approval or clearance for our products.. 28. In addition, until we have a larger base of surgeons using our products, occasional fluctuations in the use of our products by individual surgeons or small groups of surgeons will have a proportionately larger impact on our revenues than for companies with a larger customer base.. Many of the products we may seek to develop and introduce in the future will require FDA approval or clearance. We cannot begin to commercialize any such products in the U.S. without FDA approval or clearance. As a result, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for these products with any degree of certainty. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period. Any shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by our stockholders or by securities or industry analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Regulatory Penalties and Litigation. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights of the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, we cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future could subsequently be successfully challenged by others and invalidated or rendered unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing and selling related products. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents.. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable to our products but fall outside of the scope of our patent protection. Although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with certain of our employees, consultants and advisors as one of the ways we seek to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary technology, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. In the event a competitor infringes upon one of our patents or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those patents and rights may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to defend our patents against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention from managing our business. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources to defend our patents against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights.. The medical device industry is characterized by patent and other intellectual property litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management's time and efforts, require us to pay damages, and/or prevent us from marketing our existing or future products.. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that our products, the components of those products, the methods of using those products, or the methods we employ in manufacturing or processing those products are covered by patents held by them. In addition, they may claim that their patents have priority over ours because their patents were filed first. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more components of our products may be inadvertently infringing, of which we are unaware. As the number of participants in the market for spine disorder devices and treatments increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases.. Any such claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents are upheld as valid and enforceable and we are found to infringe, we could be required to pay substantial damages, including treble, or triple, damages if an infringement is found to be willful, and/or royalties and we could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to redesign our products in a way that would not infringe those patents, and any such redesign, if possible, may be costly. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may have to withdraw existing products from the market or may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products, either of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights.. 29. In addition, in order to further our product development efforts, from time to time we enter into agreements with surgeons to develop new products. As consideration for product development activities rendered pursuant to these agreements, in certain instances we have agreed to pay such surgeons royalties on products developed by cooperative involvement between us and such surgeons. There can be no assurance that surgeons with whom we have entered into such an arrangement will not claim to be entitled to a royalty even if we do not believe that such products were developed by cooperative involvement between us and such surgeons. Any such claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation.. We are currently involved in a patent litigation action involving NuVasive, Inc. and, if we do not prevail in this action, we could be liable for past damages and might be prevented from making, using, selling, offering to sell, importing or exporting certain of our products.. On February 15, 2018, NuVasive, Inc. (Nuvasive) filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, alleging that certain of our products infringe, or contribute to the infringement of, U.S. patents owned by NuVasive. NuVasive is a large, publicly-traded corporation with significantly greater financial resources than us.. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to the litigation. Pending or future patent litigation against us or any strategic partners or licensees may force us or any strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party's intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property, and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged, and if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all and any licenses may require substantial royalties or other payments by us. Even if any strategic partners, licensees or we were able to obtain rights to the third party's intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Furthermore, if we are found to infringe patent claims of a third party, we may, among other things, be required to pay damages, including up to treble damages and attorney's fees and costs, which may be substantial.. An unfavorable outcome for us in this patent litigation could significantly harm our business if such outcome makes us unable to commercialize some of our current or potential products or cease some of our business operations. In addition, costs of defense and any damages resulting from the litigation may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. The litigation may also harm our relationships with existing customers and subject us to negative publicity, each of which could harm our business and financial results.. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, design, manufacture and sale of medical devices for spine surgery procedures. Spine surgery involves significant risk of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis and even death. To date, our products have not been the subject of any material product liability claims. Currently, we carry product liability insurance in the amount of $20 million per occurrence and $20 million in the aggregate. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy liabilities we might incur. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if our product liability insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may have to pay the excess out of our cash reserves, which could harm our financial condition. If longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component of our products cause tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. Even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and result in the diversion of management's attention from managing our business. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage limits, our business could suffer and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely impacted.. Because biologics products entail a potential risk of communicable disease to human recipients, we may be the subject of product liability claims regarding our biologics products.. Our biologics products may expose us to additional potential product liability claims. The development of biologics products entails a risk of additional product liability claims because of the risk of transmitting disease to human recipients, and substantial product liability claims may be asserted against us. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Even a meritless or. 30. unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and result in the diversion of management's attention from managing our business.. Any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials could be time consuming and costly.. The manufacture of certain of our products, including our biologics products, involves the controlled use of biological, hazardous and/or radioactive materials and waste. Our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines. This liability could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance. In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, even if such contamination was not caused by us. We may incur significant expenses in the future relating to any failure to comply with environmental laws. Any such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or our independent distributors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Many of our independent distributors sell, or in the past have sold, products of our competitors. We may be subject to claims that we, our employees or our independent distributors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the trade secrets or other proprietary information of our competitors. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee or independent distributor to break the terms of his or her non-competition agreement or non-solicitation agreement. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights and/or personnel. A loss of key personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of SafeOp Surgical, Inc.. Uncertainty about our acquisition of SafeOp may adversely affect relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees, whether or not the transaction is completed.. In response to the announcement of our acquisition of SafeOp, Alphatec's and/or SafeOp's existing or prospective customers or suppliers may:. •  delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from us or the combined company, or providing products or services to us or the combined company;. •  delay or defer other decisions concerning us or the combined company; or. •  otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or the combined company.. Any such delays or changes to terms could materially harm our business or the combined business.  In addition, as a result of the acquisition of SafeOp, the employees acquired from SafeOp could experience uncertainty about their future with us.  As a result, key employees may depart because of issues relating to such uncertainties, or a desire not to remain with us following the acquisition of SafeOp.  Losses of customers, employees or other important strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We may incur substantial expenses related to the integration of SafeOp.. We may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of SafeOp.  There are a large number of systems and functions that must be integrated, including, but not limited to, management information, accounting and finance, billing, payroll and benefits and regulatory compliance.  Mergers are particularly challenging because their prior practices may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and/or generally accepted public accounting standards.  While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration. 31. expenses.  Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time.. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the business of SafeOp and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. The acquisition of SafeOp involves the combination of the businesses of two companies that currently operate as independent companies.  Our management has limited integration experience and will be required to devote significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with those of SafeOp.  Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  inability to successfully combine our business with the business of SafeOp in a manner that permits us to achieve the full synergies anticipated from the Merger;. •  complexities associated with managing our business and the business of SafeOp following the acquisition, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;. •  integrating the workforces of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and. •  potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including costs to integrate the two companies that may exceed anticipated costs.. Any of the potential difficulties listed above could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, lenders and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of SafeOp or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results following completion of the acquisition.. Our actual financial and operating results after our acquisition of SafeOp could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning future results, including (without limitation) expectations or guidance with respect to the financial impact of any cost savings and other potential synergies.. We currently expect to realize an increase in sales and other synergies as a result of the acquisition.  These expectations are subject to numerous assumptions, however, including assumptions derived from our diligence efforts concerning the status of and prospects for SafeOp's business, which we do not currently control, and assumptions relating to the near-term prospects for our industry generally and the markets for SafeOp's products in particular.  Additional assumptions that we have made include, without limitation, the following:. •  projections of SafeOp's future revenues;. •  anticipated financial performance of SafeOp's products and products currently in development;. •  anticipated cost savings and other synergies associated with the Merger, including potential revenue synergies;. •  our expected capital structure after the Merger;. •  amount of goodwill and intangibles that will result from the acquisition;. •  certain other purchase accounting adjustments that we expect to record in our financial statements in connection with the acquisition;. •  transaction costs, including those payable to our financial, legal and accounting advisors;. •  our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with SafeOp's customers; and. •  other financial and strategic risks of the acquisition.. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions, including our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of SafeOp, and we cannot provide assurances with respect to our ability to realize any cost savings that we currently anticipate.  Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from currently anticipated results include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to integrate SafeOp successfully; currently unanticipated incremental costs that we may incur in connection with integrating the two companies; risks relating to our ability to realize incremental revenues from our acquisition of SafeOp in the amounts that we currently anticipate; risks relating to the willingness of SafeOp's customers and other partners to continue to conduct business with us following the acquisition; and numerous risks and uncertainties that affect our industry generally and the markets for our products and those of SafeOp, specifically.  Any failure to integrate SafeOp successfully and to realize the financial benefits we currently anticipate from the acquisitionwould have a material. 32. adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price or trading volume of our common stock.. The combined businesses may not perform as we expect, or as the market expects, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock.. Risks associated with the combined company following our acquisition of SafeOpinclude:. •  integrating businesses is a difficult, expensive, and time-consuming process, and the failure to integrate successfully our business with the businesses of SafeOp in the expected time frame would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations;. •  the acquisition will significantly increase the size of our operations, and if we are not able to effectively manage our expanded operations, our stock price may be adversely affected;. •  it is possible that key employees of SafeOp might decide not to remain with us after the acquisition, and the loss of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects of Alphatec;. •  the current sales rates of SafeOp as combined with Alphatec may dilute the observed growth rates of Alphatec;. •  the success of Alphatec following the Closing will also depend upon relationships with third parties and pre-existing customers of us and SafeOp, which relationships may be affected by customer preferences or public attitudes about the acquisition. Any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; and. •  the price of our common stock after the acquisitionmay be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the price of our common stock.. If any of these events were to occur, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Select Market requirements and our common stock is delisted, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, impair the value of your investment and harm our business.. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements.  Although we are currently in compliance with applicable NASDAQ Global Select Market requirements,  if we fail to continue to meet all such requirements in the future and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could substantially decrease trading in our common stock and adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock; adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all, to continue our operations; and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, suppliers, customers and employees and fewer business development opportunities. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may decline further and stockholders may lose some or all of their investment.. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially and the market price of our common stock may decline in value in the future.. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including those described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section and the following:. •  volume and timing of orders for our products;. •  quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. •  our announcement or our competitors' announcements regarding new products, product enhancements, significant contracts, number of distributors, number of hospitals and surgeons using products, acquisitions, and collaborative or strategic investments;. •  announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of spine pathology;. •  changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. 33. •  changes in healthcare policy in the U.S.;. •  product liability claims or other litigation involving us;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. •  changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or applications;. •  disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights;. •  changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the U.S.;. •  changes in accounting principles; and. •  general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business.. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of medical device companies have been particularly volatile. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and business.. Securities analysts may not continue to provide coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. Securities analysts may not continue to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, it may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock.. Because of their significant stock ownership, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions.. Based on shares outstanding at March 2, 2018, our executive officers, directors and stockholders holding more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons will have the ability to impact significantly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets.. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things:. •  delaying, deferring or preventing our change in control;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us;. •  causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all of our stockholders; or. •  reducing our public float held by non-affiliates.. Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve as officers and directors of HealthpointCapital, its affiliates and other portfolio companies.. Two members of our Board of Directors also serve as officers and directors of our largest stockholder, HealthpointCapital, or its related entities and of other companies in which HealthpointCapital invests, including companies with which we compete or may in the future compete. As of March 2, 2018, HealthpointCapital owned approximately 13% of our outstanding common stock. Our Lead Director, Mortimer Berkowitz III, is a managing member of HGP, LLC and HGP II, LLC, the general partners of HealthpointCapital. 34. Partners, LP and HealthpointCapital Partners II, LP, respectively. Director R. Ian Molson also serves on the board of managers of HealthpointCapital, LLC.  Each of Messrs. Berkowitz and Molson also have financial interests in HealthpointCapital investment funds.. Because of these possible conflicts of interest, such directors may direct potential business and investment opportunities to other entities rather than to us or such directors may undertake or otherwise engage in activities or conduct on behalf of such other entities that is not in, or which may be adverse to, our best interests. Whether a director directs an opportunity to us or to another company, our directors may face claims of breaches of fiduciary duty and other duties relating to such opportunities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to indemnify our directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may require us to indemnify them against claims of breaches of such duties arising from their service on our Board of Directors. HealthpointCapital or its affiliates may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Furthermore, HealthpointCapital may have an interest in us pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to us and our stockholders generally. In addition, if we were to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our existing stockholders or directors may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and change of control provisions in some of our employment agreements and agreements with distributors, and in some of our outstanding debt agreements, as well as the terms of our redeemable preferred stock, may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions:. •  allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our Board of Directors;. •  allow vacancies on our Board of Directors to be filled only by resolution of our Board of Directors;. •  authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a \"poison pill\" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our Board of Directors;. •  require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent;. •  establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our Board of Directors and for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; and. •  limit who may call stockholder meetings.. Some of our employment agreements and all of our restricted stock agreements, incentive stock option agreements, performance-based stock units and restricted common stock provide for accelerated vesting of benefits, including full vesting of restricted stock and options, upon a change of control. A limited number of our agreements with our distributors include a provision that extends the term of the distribution agreement upon a change in control and makes it more difficult for us or our successor to terminate the agreement. These provisions may discourage or prevent a change of control.. In addition, in the event of a change of control, we would be required to redeem all outstanding shares of our redeemable preferred stock for an aggregate of $29.9 million, at the price of $9.00 per share. Further, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to issue additional shares of preferred stock. The terms of our redeemable preferred stock or any new preferred stock we may issue could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a cumulative change in its equity ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" of greater than 50 percentage points (by value) over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and certain other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change taxable income and taxes,. 35. as applicable, may be limited. We have completed multiple rounds of financing and entered into transactions which may have resulted in an ownership change or could result in an ownership change in the future. We have not completed an analysis of our equity shifts which occurred during 2017 (and the period prior to the issuance of our 2017 annual report) pursuant to Section 382.  Therefore, it is possible that we have experienced an ownership change pursuant to Section 382.We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, our ability to use our NOLs and research and development credit carryforwards to offset our U.S. federal taxable income and taxes, as applicable, may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. In addition, at the state level, similar rules may apply and there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, new tax legislation or additional tax liabilities.. The U.S. government has recently enacted comprehensive tax legislation that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, (i) a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, (ii) a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, (iii) a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with certain rules designed to prevent erosion of the U.S. income tax base) and (iv) a one-time tax on accumulated offshore earnings held in cash and illiquid assets, with the latter taxed at a lower rate. The overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. Our tax returns and other tax matters also are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. We cannot guarantee the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the United States, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our \"Business\" set forth in Item 1, the \"Risk Factors\" set forth in this Item 1A and our \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including statements regarding:. •  our estimates regarding anticipated operating losses, future revenue, expenses, capital requirements, uses and sources of cash and liquidity, including our anticipated revenue growth and cost savings;. •  our ability to meet the financial covenants under our credit facilities;. •  our ability to ensure that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures;. •  our not realizing the full economic benefit from the Globus Transaction, including as a result of indemnification claims under the definitive agreement and the retention by us of certain liabilities associated with the international business, and our ability to meet our obligations under the Globus supply agreement;. •  our ability to meet and potential liability from not meeting the payment obligations under the Orthotec settlement agreement;. •  our ability to regain and maintain compliance with the quality requirements of the FDA;. •  our ability to market, improve, grow, commercialize and achieve market acceptance of any of our products or any product candidates that we are developing or may develop in the future;. •  our beliefs about the features, strengths and benefits of our products;. •  our ability to continue to enhance our product offerings, outsource our manufacturing operations and expand the commercialization of our products, and the effect of our strategy;. •  our expectations about the timing, costs and benefits of the restructuring and outsourcing of our manufacturing operations;. •  our beliefs about the ability of our supplier relationships and quality processes to fulfill our production requirements;. •  our ability to successfully integrate, and realize benefits from licenses and acquisitions;. 36. •  the effect of any existing or future federal, state or international regulations on our ability to effectively conduct our business;. •  our estimates of market sizes and anticipated uses of our products;. •  our business strategy and our underlying assumptions about market data, demographic trends, reimbursement trends and pricing trends;. •  our ability to achieve profitability, and the potential need to raise additional funding;. •  our ability to maintain an adequate sales network for our products, including to attract and retain independent distributors;. •  our ability to enhance our U.S. distribution network;. •  our ability to increase the use and promotion of our products by training and educating surgeons and our sales network;. •  our ability to attract and retain a qualified management team, as well as other qualified personnel and advisors;. •  our ability to enter into licensing and business combination agreements with third parties and to successfully integrate the acquired technology and/or businesses;. •  our management team's ability to accommodate growth and manage a larger organization;. •  our ability to protect our intellectual property, and to not infringe upon the intellectual property of third parties;. •  the effects of the escalating cost of medical products and services and the effects of market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures on the healthcare industry and our business;. •  our ability to meet or exceed the industry standard in clinical and legal compliance and corporate governance programs;. •  our beliefs about our competitors and the principal competitive factors in our market and the effect of non-operative treatments on demand for our products;. •  potential liability resulting from litigation;. •  our beliefs about our employee relations;. •  potential liability resulting from a governmental review of our business practices;. •  our beliefs about the usefulness of the non-GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K;. •  our beliefs with respect to our critical accounting policies and the reasonableness of our estimates and assumptions; and. •  other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any document incorporated by reference herein or therein.. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results.. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under \"Risk Factors\" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed there could also adversely affect us.. Without limiting the foregoing, the words \"believe,\" \"anticipate,\" \"plan,\" \"expect,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"seek,\"  \"intend,\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors set forth under \"Item 1A Risk Factors.\" In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law.. 37"
