[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face significant competition for users, advertisers, publishers, developers, and distributors.. We face significant competition from online search engines, sites offering integrated internet products and services, social media and networking sites, e-commerce sites, companies providing analytics, monetization and marketing and publishing tools for mobile and desktop advertisers, publishers, developers and distributors, and digital, broadcast and print media. In a number of international markets, especially those in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America, we face substantial competition from local Internet service providers and other entities that offer search, communications, and other commercial services.. Several of our competitors offer an integrated variety of Internet products, advertising services, technologies, online services and content. We compete against these and other companies to attract and retain users, advertisers, developers, and third-party website publishers as participants in our Affiliate network, and to obtain agreements with third parties to promote or distribute our services. We also compete with social media and networking sites which are increasingly used to communicate and share information, and which are attracting a substantial and increasing share of users, users' online time, content, and online advertising dollars.. A key element of our strategy is increasing revenue growth. As part of this strategy, we are focusing on mobile products and mobile advertising formats, as well as increasing our revenue from mobile. A number of our competitors also have devoted significant resources to the development of products, services and apps for mobile devices. Several of our competitors have mobile revenue significantly greater than ours. If we are unable to develop products for mobile devices that users find engaging and that help us grow our mobile revenue, our competitive position, our financial condition and our operating results could be harmed.. In addition, a number of competitors offer products, services and apps that directly compete for users with our offerings, including e-mail, search, video, social, sports, news, finance, micro-blogging,. 13. Table of Contents. and messaging. Similarly, our competitors or other participants in the online advertising marketplace offer advertising exchanges, ad networks, demand side platforms, ad serving technologies, sponsored search offerings, and other services that directly compete for advertisers with our offerings. Additionally, as the use of programmatic advertising continues to increase, we compete with companies that have also invested in programmatic platform offerings. We also compete with traditional print and broadcast media companies to attract domestic and international advertising spending. Some of our existing competitors and possible entrants have greater brand recognition for certain products, services and apps, more expertise in particular market segments, and greater operational, strategic, technological, financial, personnel, or other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have access to considerable financial and technical resources with which to compete aggressively, including by funding future growth and expansion and investing in acquisitions, technologies, and research and development. Further, emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products, services and apps faster than we can. In addition, competitors may consolidate or collaborate with each other, and new competitors may enter the market. Some of our competitors in international markets have a substantial competitive advantage over us because they have dominant market share in their territories, have greater local brand recognition, are focused on a single market, are more familiar with local tastes and preferences, or have greater regulatory and operational flexibility due to the fact that we may be subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements.. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing and deploying compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, developers, or distributors, our revenue and growth rates could decline.. We generate the majority of our revenue from search and display advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause our revenue and operating results to decline.. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, 90 percent of our total revenue came from search and display advertising. Our ability to retain and grow search and display revenue depends upon:. <U+0095>    maintaining and increasing our daily active users, logged in users, page views and engagement;. <U+0095>    introducing engaging new products that are popular with users and advertisers and are distributable on mobile and other alternative devices and platforms;. <U+0095>    maintaining and expanding our advertiser base on desktop computers and mobile devices;. <U+0095>    achieving a better traffic mix from our Yahoo Properties and Affiliates and improving our monetization rates on such traffic;. <U+0095>    broadening our relationships with advertisers to small- and medium-sized businesses;. <U+0095>    successfully implementing changes and improvements to our advertising management platforms and formats and obtaining the acceptance of our advertising management platforms by advertisers, website publishers, and online advertising networks;. <U+0095>    successfully acquiring, investing in, and implementing new technologies;. <U+0095>    successfully implementing changes in our sales force, sales development teams, and sales strategy;. <U+0095>    continuing to innovate and improve the monetization capabilities of our display and native advertising and our mobile products;. <U+0095>    effectively monetizing mobile and other search queries;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    improving the quality of our user and advertiser products;. <U+0095>    continuing to innovate and improve users' search experiences;. <U+0095>    maintaining and expanding our Affiliate program for search and display advertising services; and. <U+0095>    deriving better demographic and other information about our users to enable us to offer better, more personalized and targeted experiences to both our users and advertisers.. In most cases, our agreements with advertisers have a term of one year or less, and may be terminated at any time by the advertiser or by us. Payments under our agreements with advertisers often depend upon performance and click-through levels. Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast search and display revenue accurately. In addition, our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenue, including any guaranteed minimum payments and other traffic acquisition costs to our Affiliates in connection with search and/or display advertising, and in some cases, the expenses could exceed the revenue that we generate. The state of the global economy, growth rate of the online advertising market, and availability of capital impacts the advertising spending patterns of our existing and potential advertisers. Any reduction in spending by, or loss of, existing or potential advertisers would negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Further, we may be unable to adjust our expenses and capital expenditures quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.. As more people access our products via mobile devices rather than desktop computers and mobile advertising continues to evolve, if we do not continue to attract and retain mobile users and grow mobile revenue, our financial results will be adversely impacted.. The number of people who access the Internet through mobile devices rather than a desktop computer, including mobile telephones, smartphones and tablets, is increasing and will likely continue to increase dramatically. More than 650 million of our monthly users (including Tumblr users) are now accessing us on mobile devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken through mobile devices. As a result, our ability to grow advertising revenue increasingly depends on our ability to generate revenue from ads displayed on mobile devices.. A key element of our strategy is focusing on mobile devices, and we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation and support of developing new and innovative mobile products, services and apps.However, if our new mobile products, services and apps, including new forms of Internet advertising for mobile devices, do not continue to attract and retain mobile users, advertisers and device manufacturers and to generate and grow mobile revenue, our operating and financial results will be adversely impacted. We are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile operating systems we do not control and we may not be successful in maintaining relationships with the key participants in the mobile industry that control such mobile operating systems. The manufacturer or access provider might promote a competitor's or its own products and services, impair users' access to our services by blocking access through their devices, make it hard for users to readily discover, install, update or access our products on their devices, or charge us for delivery of ads, or limit our ability to deliver ads or measure their effectiveness. If distributors impair access to or refuse to distribute our services or apps, or charge for or limit our ability to deliver ads or measure the effectiveness of our ads, then our user engagement and revenue could decline.. If we do not manage our operating expenses effectively, our profitability could fail to improve and could decline.. We plan to continue to seek to operate efficiently and to manage our costs effectively. However, we are also investing in areas we believe will grow revenue and our operating expenses might increase. 15. Table of Contents. as a result of these investments. We have also incurred significant costs in connection with the Sale transaction with Verizon and in connection with the Security Incidents, and we expect these costs will continue in the foreseeable future. If our operating expenses or other expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenue grows, or if we fail to manage costs effectively, our profitability could fail to improve and could decline.. Risks and uncertainties associated with the pending Sale transaction with Verizon may adversely affect our business, financial performance and stock price.. There is no assurance that the Sale transaction will be consummated in a timely manner or at all. In addition, the anticipated benefits of the Sale transaction may not be realized. Potential risks and uncertainties related to the Sale transaction include, among others:. <U+0095>    the inability to consummate the transaction in a timely manner or at all, due to the inability to obtain or delays in obtaining the approval of our stockholders, the necessary regulatory approvals, or satisfaction of other conditions to the closing of the Sale transaction;. <U+0095>    the existence or occurrence of any event, change, or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the Amended Stock Purchase Agreement, which, in addition to other adverse consequences, could result in the Company incurring substantial fees, including, in certain circumstances, the payment of a termination fee to Verizon under the Amended Stock Purchase Agreement;. <U+0095>    potential adverse effects on our relationships with our existing and potential advertisers, suppliers, customers, vendors, distributors, landlords, licensors, licensees, joint venture partners, and other business partners;. <U+0095>    the implementation of the Sale transaction will require significant time, attention, and resources of our senior management and others within the Company, potentially diverting their attention from the conduct of our business;. <U+0095>    risks related to our ability to retain or recruit key talent;. <U+0095>    costs, fees, expenses and charges related to or triggered by the Sale transaction;. <U+0095>    the net proceeds that the Company will receive from Verizon is subject to uncertainties as a result of the purchase price adjustments in the Amended Stock Purchase Agreement;. <U+0095>    restrictions on the conduct of our business, including the ability to make certain acquisitions and divestitures, enter into certain contracts, and incur certain indebtedness and expenditures until the earlier of the completion of the Sale transaction or the termination of the Amended Stock Purchase Agreement;. <U+0095>    potential adverse effects on our business, properties or operations caused by us implementing the Sale transaction or foregoing opportunities that we might otherwise pursue absent the pending Sale transaction;. <U+0095>    the initiation or outcome of any legal proceedings or regulatory proceedings that may be instituted against us and our directors and/or officers relating to the Sale transaction as well as certain liabilities arising out of governmental or third party investigations, litigation or claims related to certain data security incidents for which the Company will retain liability following the closing; and. <U+0095>    following the closing of the Sale transaction, the Company will be required to register and be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which will result in, among other things, the Company having to comply with the regulations thereunder, certain stockholders potentially being prohibited from holding or acquiring shares of the. 16. Table of Contents. Company, and the Company likely being removed from the Standard and Poor's 500 Index and other indices which could have an adverse impact on the Company's share price following the Sale transaction.. All of these risks and uncertainties could potentially have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance, and could cause our stock price to decline.. We are still in the process of assessing the full extent of the impact of the Security Incidents and the related government investigations and civil litigation on our results of operations, which could be material.. We are still in the process of assessing the financial and other effects of the Security Incidents (See Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Security Incidents\"), which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. As a result of the Security Incidents, we are facing approximately 43 putative consumer class action lawsuits, four stockholder derivative actions and one putative stockholder class action, and other lawsuits and claims may be asserted by or on behalf of users, partners, shareholders, or others seeking damages or other related relief, allegedly arising out of the Security Incidents. We are also facing investigations by a number of federal, state, and foreign governmental officials and agencies. These claims and investigations may adversely affect how we operate our business, divert the attention of management from the operation of the business, and result in additional costs and potential fines. In addition, the governmental agencies investigating the Security Incidents may seek to impose injunctive relief, consent decrees, or other civil or criminal penalties which could, among other things, materially increase our data security costs, and affect how we operate our systems and collect and use customer and user information.. Our security measures may be breached as they were in the Security Incidents and user data accessed, which may cause users and customers to curtail or stop using our products and services, and may cause us to incur significant legal and financial exposure.. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of Yahoo's users' and customers' personal and proprietary information in our facilities and on our equipment, networks, and corporate systems. Yahoo is routinely targeted by outside third parties, including technically sophisticated and well-resourced state-sponsored actors, attempting to access or steal our user and customer data or otherwise compromise user accounts. We believe such a state-sponsored actor was responsible for the theft involved in the 2014 Security Incident and for at least some of the Cookie Forging Activity. Security breaches or other unauthorized access or actions expose us to a risk of theft of user data, regulatory actions, litigation, investigations, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and brand, loss of user and partner confidence in the security of our products and services and resulting fees, costs, and expenses, loss of revenue, damage to our reputation, and other potential liability. Outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, users, partners, customers, or other parties to disclose sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data, and such unauthorized access may continue undetected for an extended period of time. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise network and data security. In addition, systems and software implemented by us or our partners may contain security vulnerabilities, or may be implemented improperly due to human error or limitations in affected systems. Additionally, some third parties, such as our distribution partners, service providers, vendors, and app developers, may receive, transmit, process, access or store information provided by us or by our users through systems and applications that are integrated with Yahoo systems, properties and services. If these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our data or our users' data may be improperly. 17. Table of Contents. accessed, used, or disclosed. Security breaches or other unauthorized data disclosure, acquisition or access (such as the Security Incidents) have resulted in, and may in the future result in, a combination of significant legal and financial exposure, increased remediation and other costs, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products, services, and networks that could have a significantly adverse effect on our business. We take steps to prevent unauthorized data disclosure or access to our systems; however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Breaches of our security measures, such as the Security Incidents, or perceived breaches, have caused and may in the future cause, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures to be harmed and could cause us to lose users and customers, or detrimentally affect our relationships with distribution partners, service providers, vendors and app developers.. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data, or any failure to comply with such laws, could adversely affect our business.. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled. Many states have passed laws requiring notification to users where there is a security breach for personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act. We face similar risks in international markets where our products, services and apps are offered. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with or to make effective modifications to our policies, or to comply with any applicable federal, state, or international privacy, data-retention or data-protection-related laws, regulations, orders or industry self-regulatory principles could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of user confidence, damage to the Yahoo brands, and a loss of users, advertising partners, or Affiliates, any of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer and data protection issues, including laws or regulations mandating disclosure to domestic or international law enforcement bodies, which could adversely impact our business, our brand or our reputation with users. For example, some countries are considering or have enacted laws mandating that user data regarding users in their country be maintained in their country. Having to maintain local data centers in individual countries could increase our operating costs significantly. In addition, there currently is a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which has been finalized and is pending implementation by the member states of the European Union by May 2018 that includes operational and compliance requirements that are different than those currently in place and that also includes significant penalties for non-compliance. The European Union is also considering an update to its Privacy and Electronic Communications (e-Privacy) Directive to, among other things, amend the current directive's rules on the use of cookies.. The European Court of Justice invalidated the European Commission's 2000 Safe Harbor Decision that we had previously relied on for data transfers between the European Union and United States. The model contractual clauses and other mechanisms that we currently rely on to address European Union data protection requirements for transfers of data are subject to uncertainty and legal challenges. The European Union and United States recently agreed to the Privacy Shield Framework, an alternative mechanism to comply with European Union data protection requirements. We are not currently relying on the Privacy Shield Framework. Challenges to our existing data transfer mechanisms, and any future legal challenges to data transfer mechanisms that we may adopt, could. 18. Table of Contents. cause us to incur additional costs, require us to change business practices in a manner adverse to our business, or affect the manner in which we provide our services.. The interpretation and application of privacy, data protection, data transfer and data retention laws and regulations are often uncertain and in flux in the United States and internationally. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices, complicating long-range business planning decisions. If privacy, data protection, data transfer or data retention laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our current policies and practices we may be fined or ordered to change our business practices in a manner that adversely impacts our operating results. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and operating results.. We are regularly involved in claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.. We are regularly involved in claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, consumer protection, information security, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial claims, as well as actions involving content generated by our users, stockholder derivative actions, purported class action and class action lawsuits, and other matters. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm, liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. See Note 12 - \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements.. Risks associated with our Search Agreement with Microsoft may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Under our Search Agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft was the exclusive provider of algorithmic and paid search services for Yahoo Properties and Affiliate sites on personal computers and the non-exclusive provider of such services on mobile devices. As of April 15, 2015, Microsoft became the non-exclusive provider of such services on all devices. Commencing on May 1, 2015, the Company is required to request paid search results from Microsoft for 51 percent of its search queries originating from personal computers accessing Yahoo Properties and its Affiliate sites (the \"Volume Commitment\") and will display only Microsoft's paid search results on such search result pages. Approximately 37 percent, 35 percent, and 35 percent, of our revenue for 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, were attributable to the Microsoft Search Agreement (or approximately 25 percent for 2016 after excluding the impact of the change in revenue presentation related to the implementation of the Eleventh Amendment to the Microsoft Search Agreement during the second quarter of 2016). Our business and operating results would be adversely affected by a significant decline in or loss of this revenue if we are not able to successfully replace this revenue with revenue from search results displayed through our Yahoo Gemini platform or our Services Agreement with Google.. As a result of the Volume Commitment, we continue to be dependent on Microsoft continuing to invest and innovate to maintain and improve its algorithmic and paid search services and to be. 19. Table of Contents. competitive with other search providers. If Microsoft fails to do this, our revenue and profitability could decline and our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with Affiliates for search and paid search advertising could be negatively impacted. Further, our competitors may continue to increase revenue, profitability, and market share at a higher rate than we do.. The term of the Microsoft Search Agreement is 10 years from its commencement date, February 23, 2010, subject to earlier termination as provided in the Microsoft Search Agreement. On or after October 1, 2015, either the Company or Microsoft may terminate the Microsoft Search Agreement by delivering a written notice of termination to the other party. The Microsoft Search Agreement will remain in effect for four months from the date of a termination notice to provide for a transition period. If Microsoft terminated the Microsoft Search Agreement and the Company was unable to rely on its own services or the Services Agreement with Google, the termination could have an adverse impact on our business, revenue and operating results.. Risks associated with our Services Agreement with Google may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Under our Services Agreement with Google, Google will provide us with search advertisements through Google's AdSense for Search service, web algorithmic search services through Google's Websearch Service, and image search services. We entered into the Services Agreement with Google in the fourth quarter of 2015. In addition, if Microsoft were to terminate its Search Agreement with us, we would be required to rely on the Services Agreement and our Yahoo Gemini platform to replace the search revenue we currently receive under the Microsoft Search Agreement.. We are dependent on Google continuing to invest and innovate to maintain and improve its algorithmic and paid search services and to be competitive with other search providers. If Google fails to do this, our revenue and profitability could decline. Further, Google has a number of termination rights under the Services Agreement. If Google terminated the Services Agreement and we were unable to rely on our Yahoo Gemini platform or the Microsoft Search Agreement, the termination could have an adverse impact on our business, revenue and operating results.. If we are unable to provide innovative search experiences and other products and services that differentiate our services and generate significant traffic to our websites, our business could be harmed, causing our revenue to decline.. Internet search is characterized by rapidly changing technology, significant competition, evolving industry standards, and frequent product and service enhancements. Although we have agreements with Microsoft and Google to use their paid search platforms, we still need to continue to invest in our Yahoo Gemini search platform and to innovate to improve our users' search experience (especially on mobile) to continue to differentiate our services and attract, retain, and expand our user base and paid search advertiser base. We also generate revenue through other online products, services and apps, and continue to innovate the products, services and apps in our portfolio. The research and development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex process that requires significant levels of innovation and investment, as well as accurate anticipation of technology, market and consumer trends.. If we are unable to provide innovative search experiences and other products and services which differentiate our services, gain user acceptance and generate significant traffic to our websites, or if we are unable to effectively monetize the traffic from such products and services, our business could be harmed, causing our revenue to decline.. 20. Table of Contents. Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain or enhance the Yahoo brands in a cost-effective manner could harm our operating results.. Maintaining and enhancing our brands is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user, advertiser, and Affiliate base. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in certain portions of the Internet market. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to provide high-quality, innovative products, and services, which we might not do successfully. We have spent and expect to spend considerable money and resources on the establishment and maintenance of our brands, as well as advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors such as service outages, product malfunctions, data protection and security issues, exploitation of our trademarks by others without permission, and poor presentation or integration of our search marketing offerings by Affiliates on their sites or in their software and services.. Further, while we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by our licensees, our licensees might take actions that could impair the value of our brands, our proprietary rights, or the reputation of our products and media properties. If we are unable to maintain or enhance our brands in a cost-effective manner, or if we incur excessive expenses in these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. If we are unable to attract, sustain, and renew distribution arrangements on favorable terms, our revenue may decline.. We enter into distribution arrangements with third parties to promote or supply our services to their users. For example:. <U+0095>    We maintain search and display advertising relationships with Affiliate sites, which integrate our advertising offerings into their websites.. <U+0095>    We enter into distribution alliances with Internet service providers (including providers of cable and broadband Internet access) and software distributors to promote our services to their users.. <U+0095>    We enter into agreements with mobile phone, tablet, television, and other device manufacturers, electronics companies and carriers to promote our software and services on their devices.. In some markets, we depend on a limited number of distribution arrangements for a significant percentage of our user, publisher, and advertiser activity. A failure by our distributors to attract or retain their user bases would negatively impact our user activity and, in turn, reduce our revenue. For mobile app distribution, we depend on a limited number of distributors, primarily the developers of the operating systems or device manufacturers. If we are unable to reach agreements with these distributors for distribution of our mobile apps or they refuse to distribute or block our mobile apps, our operating results will be harmed. In the future, as new methods for accessing the Internet and our services become available, including through alternative devices, we may need to enter into amended distribution agreements with existing access providers, distributors, and manufacturers to cover the new devices and new arrangements. We face a risk that existing and potential new access providers, distributors, and manufacturers may decide not to offer distribution of our services on reasonable terms, or at all.. Distribution agreements often involve revenue sharing. Competition to enter into distribution arrangements has caused and may in the future cause our traffic acquisition costs to increase. In some cases, we guarantee distributors a minimum level of revenue and, as a result, run a risk that the distributors' performance (in terms of ad impressions, toolbar installations, etc.) might not be sufficient to otherwise earn their minimum payments, in which case our payments could exceed the. 21. Table of Contents. revenue that we receive. In other cases, we agree that if the distributor does not realize specified minimum revenue we will adjust the distributor's revenue-share percentage or provide make-whole arrangements.. Some of our distribution agreements are not exclusive, have a short term, are terminable at will, or are subject to early termination provisions. The loss of distributors, increased distribution costs, or the renewal of distribution agreements on significantly less favorable terms may cause our revenue to decline.. If we are unable to license, acquire, create or aggregate compelling content and services at reasonable cost, or receive compelling content, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, or users' level of engagement with our services may decline, all of which could harm our operating results.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to aggregate compelling content and deliver that content through our online properties. We license from third parties much of the content and services on our online properties, such as news, stock quotes, weather, sports, video, and photos. In addition, our users also contribute content to us, and our employees and contractors produce unique content for us. We believe that users will increasingly demand high-quality content and services. We may need to make substantial payments to third parties from whom we license or acquire such content or services. Our ability to maintain and build relationships with such third-party providers is critical to our success. In addition, as users increasingly access the Internet via mobile and other alternative devices, we may need to enter into amended agreements with existing third-party providers to cover new devices. We may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third-parties whose content or services we seek to obtain. In addition, as competition for compelling content increases both domestically and internationally, our third-party providers may increase the prices at which they offer their content and services to us, stop offering their content or services to us, or offer their content and services on terms that are not agreeable to us. An increase in the prices charged to us by third-party providers or in the costs we incur to produce our own content could harm our operating results and financial condition. Further, because many of our licenses for our content and services with third parties are non-exclusive, other media providers may be able to offer similar or identical content. This increases the importance of our ability to deliver compelling editorial content and personalization of this content for users in order to differentiate Yahoo from other businesses. If we are unable to license or acquire compelling content at reasonable cost, if other companies distribute content or services that are similar to or the same as that provided by us, or if we do not receive compelling content from our users, the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, users' level of engagement with our services may decline, clicks on our ads may decrease, or advertisers may reduce future purchases of our ads, all or any of which could harm our operating results.. Interruptions, delays, or failures in the provision of our services could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.. Delays or disruptions to our service, or the loss or compromise of data, could result from a variety of causes, including the following:. <U+0095>    Our operations are susceptible to outages and interruptions due to fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami, other natural disasters, power loss, equipment or telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorist attacks, political or social unrest, and other events over which we have little or no control. We do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services and some of our systems are not fully redundant in the event of delays or disruptions to service, so some data or systems may not be fully recoverable after such events.. 22. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    The systems through which we provide our products and services are highly technical, complex, and interdependent. Design errors might exist in these systems, or might be introduced when we make modifications, which might cause service malfunctions or require services to be taken offline while corrective responses are developed.. <U+0095>    Despite our implementation of security measures, our servers and platforms are vulnerable to computer viruses, malware, worms, hacking, physical and electronic break-ins, router disruption, sabotage or espionage, and other disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering (including through social engineering such as phishing attacks), as well as coordinated denial-of-service attacks. We may not be in a position to promptly address attacks or to implement adequate preventative measures if we are unable to immediately detect such attacks. Such events could result in large expenditures to investigate or remediate, to recover data, to repair or replace networks, information systems, or platforms, including changes to security measures, to deploy additional personnel, to defend litigation or regulatory actions or to protect against similar future events, and may cause damage to our reputation or loss of revenue.. <U+0095>    We rely on third-party providers over which we have little or no control for our principal Internet connections and co-location of a significant portion of our data servers, as well as for our payment processing capabilities and key components or features of certain of our products and services. Any disruption of the services they provide us or any failure of these third-party providers to handle higher volumes of use could, in turn, cause delays or disruptions in our services and loss of revenue. In addition, if our agreements with these third-party providers are terminated for any reason, we might not have a readily available alternative.. Prolonged delays or disruptions to our service could result in a loss of users, damage to our brands, legal costs or liability, and harm to our operating results.. Technologies, tools, software, and applications could block our advertisements, impair our ability to deliver interest-based advertising, or shift the location in which advertising appears, which could harm our operating results.. Technologies, tools, software, and applications (including new and enhanced browsers) have been developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block or allow users to opt out of display, search, and interest-based advertising and content, delete or block the cookies used to deliver such advertising, or shift the location in which advertising appears on pages so that our advertisements do not show up in the most monetizable places on our pages or are obscured. Most of our revenue is derived from fees paid by advertisers in connection with the display of graphical and non-graphical advertisements or clicks on search advertisements on web pages. As a result, the adoption of such technologies, tools, software, and applications could reduce the number of search and display advertisements that we are able to deliver and/or our ability to deliver interest-based advertising and this, in turn, could reduce our advertising revenue and operating results.. If we are unable to recruit, hire, motivate, and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan.. Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, motivate, and retain talented, highly skilled personnel. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including the pending Sale transaction with Verizon; the intense competition for such highly skilled personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area and other metropolitan areas where our offices are located; competitors' hiring practices; the effectiveness of our compensation and retention programs; and fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our existing key employees, and in attracting new key personnel, we may be unable to meet our business plan and as a result, our revenue and profitability may decline.. 23. Table of Contents. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any failure or inability to sufficiently protect them could harm our business and our operating results.. We create, own, and maintain a wide array of copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, rights to domain names and other intellectual property assets which we believe are collectively among our most valuable assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property assets through patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark, and other laws of the U.S. and other countries of the world, and through contractual provisions. However, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. Protection of the distinctive elements of Yahoo might not always be available under copyright law or trademark law, or we might not discover or determine the full extent of any unauthorized use of our copyrights and trademarks in order to protect our rights. In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed or made available through the Internet. Changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, could also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. In particular, recent amendments to the U.S. patent law may affect our ability to protect our innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Further, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we might choose not to protect (or not to protect in some jurisdictions) certain innovations that later turn out to be important. There is also a risk that the scope of protection under our patents may not be sufficient in some cases or that existing patents may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. To help maintain our trade secrets, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with most of our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with many of the parties with whom we conduct business, in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. If these confidentiality agreements are breached it could compromise our trade secrets and cause us to lose any competitive advantage provided by those trade secrets.. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results.. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property infringement or other third-party claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the future.. Internet, technology, media, and patent holding companies often possess a significant number of patents. Further, many of these companies and other parties are actively developing or purchasing search, indexing, e-commerce, and other Internet-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business models and methods.. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps such as seeking patent protection to protect these technologies. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with online businesses are likely to continue to arise in the future. From time to time, parties assert patent infringement claims against us. Currently, we are engaged in a number of lawsuits regarding patent issues and have been notified of a number of other potential disputes.. In addition to patent claims, third parties have asserted, and are likely in the future to assert, claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition, violation of federal or state statutes or other claims,. 24. Table of Contents. including alleged violation of international statutory and common law. In addition, third parties have made, and may continue to make, infringement and other claims against us over the display of content or search results triggered by search terms.. As we develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims, including those that may arise under international laws. In the event that there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights, or other third-party rights such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability, or be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or be prevented from using such rights, which could require us to change our business practices in the future, hinder us from offering certain features, functionalities, products or services, require us to develop non-infringing products or technologies, and limit our ability to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party claims regardless of the merit of such claims. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers or Affiliates require us to indemnify them for some types of third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. Furthermore, such customers and Affiliates may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies either as a result of injunctions or otherwise. The occurrence of any of these results could harm our brands or have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results, and cash flows.. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill, intangible assets, investments in equity interests, or other investments become impaired.. We have previously recorded charges to earnings when our goodwill, intangible assets, investments in equity interests, including investments held by any equity method investee, and other investments became impaired. For example, we recorded a $4.461 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge during the fourth quarter of 2015 and a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $395 million and a non-cash intangible assets impairment charge of $87 million during the second quarter of 2016. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and to review our intangible assets, investments in equity interests (including investments held by any equity method investee), and our other investments, for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill, intangible assets (including goodwill or assets acquired via acquisitions) and other investments include significant adverse changes in the business climate and actual or projected operating results (affecting our company as a whole or affecting any particular reporting unit) and declines in the financial condition of our business. Factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests include a prolonged period of decline in the stock price or operating performance of, or an announcement of adverse changes or events by, the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies. Factors that could lead to an impairment of U.S. government securities, which constitute a significant portion of our current assets, include any downgrade of U.S. government debt or concern about the creditworthiness of the U.S. government. We may be required in the future to record additional charges to earnings if our goodwill, intangible assets, investments in equity interests, including investments held by any equity method investee, or other investments become impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our financial results.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Revenue generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries and any equity method investee are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. As a result, our consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries and any equity method investee are translated from. 25. Table of Contents. local currencies into U.S. dollars. Our financial results are also subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. The carrying values of our equity investments in any equity investee are also subject to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies.. We use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts, to partially offset certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such instruments may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Any losses on these instruments that we experience may adversely impact our financial results, cash flows and financial condition. Further, we hedge a portion of our net investment in Yahoo Japan Corporation (\"Yahoo Japan\") with currency forward contracts. If the Japanese yen has appreciated at maturity beyond the contract execution rate, we would be required to settle the contract by making a cash payment which could be material and could adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition. See Part II, Item 7A - \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" of this Annual Report.. Acquisitions and strategic investments could result in adverse impacts on our operations and in unanticipated liabilities.. We have acquired, and have made strategic investments in, a number of companies (including through joint ventures). Such acquisitions and strategic investments to date were accompanied by a number of risks, including:. <U+0095>    the difficulty of integrating the operations, personnel, systems, and controls of acquired companies as a result of cultural, regulatory, systems, and operational differences;. <U+0095>    the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. <U+0095>    the incurrence of additional operating losses and operating expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested;. <U+0095>    the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration;. <U+0095>    the failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology and any resulting impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;. <U+0095>    the failure of strategic investments to perform as expected or to meet financial projections;. <U+0095>    the potential for patent and trademark infringement and data privacy and security claims against the acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested;. <U+0095>    litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions, acquired companies, or companies in which we have invested;. <U+0095>    the impairment or loss of relationships with customers and partners of the companies we acquired or in which we invested or with our customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations;. <U+0095>    the impairment of relationships with, or failure to retain, employees of acquired companies or our existing employees as a result of integration of new personnel;. <U+0095>    the impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets;. <U+0095>    our lack of, or limitations on our, control over the operations of our joint venture companies;. <U+0095>    in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and. 26. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    the impact of known potential liabilities or liabilities that may be unknown, including as a result of inadequate internal controls, associated with the companies we acquired or in which we invested.. Our failure to be successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our acquisitions and strategic investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.. A variety of new and existing U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations could subject us to claims, judgments, monetary liabilities and other remedies, and to limitations on our business practices.. We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or the interpretation of them, our introduction of new products or forms of advertising (such as native advertising), or an extension of our business into new areas, could increase our future compliance costs, make our products and services less attractive to our users, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We may incur substantial expenses to comply with laws and regulations or defend against a claim that we have not complied with them. Further, any failure on our part to comply with any relevant laws or regulations may subject us to significant civil or criminal liabilities, penalties, and negative publicity.. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, data transfer, data localization, security, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, billing, real estate, fantasy sports, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, quality of services, law enforcement demands, telecommunications, mobile, television, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Further, the application to us or our subsidiaries of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers can be unclear. For example, paid fantasy sports contests are an area of current regulatory uncertainty, with various government authorities having taken positions that some types of contests are unlawful and/or subject to licensing requirements. Similarly, there are a number of legislative proposals in the European Union and its member states that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business, including, but not limited to, copyright. U.S. export control laws and regulations also impose requirements and restrictions on exports to certain nations and persons and on our business. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country.. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (\"DMCA\") is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for caching, hosting, listing or linking to, third-party websites or user content that include materials that give rise to copyright infringement. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (\"CDA\") are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and the CDA in conducting our business, and may be adversely impacted by future legislation and future judicial decisions altering these safe harbors or if international jurisdictions refuse to apply similar protections.. Various U.S. and international laws restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. These laws currently impose restrictions and requirements on our business, and future federal, state or international laws and legislative efforts designed to protect children on the Internet may impose additional requirements on us.. 27. Table of Contents. Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to continue to generate revenue from our foreign operations, there are additional risks inherent in doing business internationally (including through our international joint ventures), including:. <U+0095>    tariffs, trade barriers, customs classifications and changes in trade regulations;. <U+0095>    difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences;. <U+0095>    stringent local labor laws and regulations;. <U+0095>    longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>    credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud;. <U+0095>    profit repatriation restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions;. <U+0095>    political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues;. <U+0095>    geopolitical events, including natural disasters, acts of war and terrorism;. <U+0095>    import or export regulations;. <U+0095>    compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting bribery and corrupt payments to government officials;. <U+0095>    antitrust and competition regulations;. <U+0095>    potentially adverse tax developments;. <U+0095>    seasonal volatility in business activity and local economic conditions;. <U+0095>    economic uncertainties relating to volatility in emerging markets and global economic uncertainty;. <U+0095>    laws, regulations, licensing requirements, and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership or investments;. <U+0095>    different, uncertain or more stringent user protection, content, data protection, privacy, intellectual property and other laws; and. <U+0095>    risks related to other government regulation (including actions restricting access to our products or services), required compliance with local laws or lack of legal precedent.. The recent advisory referendum on the United Kingdom's membership in the European Union, and any resulting changes to UK or EU policies, may, among other things, adversely affect business activity and economic conditions, cause unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations, create uncertainty regarding international data protection and transfer, government requests for information, advertising regulations, and tax rates, and affect our ability to recruit and retain employees.. We are subject to numerous and sometimes conflicting U.S. and foreign laws and regulations which increase our cost of doing business. Violations of these complex laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could result in damage awards, fines, criminal actions, sanctions, or penalties against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and our ability to offer products and services, and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could result in harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.. 28. Table of Contents. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.. We host and provide a wide variety of services and technology products that enable and encourage individuals and businesses to exchange information; upload or otherwise generate photos, videos, text, and other content; advertise products and services; conduct business; and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services and products for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and internationally. As a publisher, producer, and distributor of content, we may be subject to claims such as copyright, libel, defamation or improper use of publicity rights, as well as other infringement claims such as plagiarism. Claims have been threatened and brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, plagiarism, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information which we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates laws in domestic and international jurisdictions. We could also face restrictions or blocking of our services in particular countries as a result of content hosted on our services. We arrange for the distribution of third-party advertisements to third-party publishers and advertising networks, and we offer third-party products, services, or content, such as stock quotes and trading information or search results, under the Yahoo brand or via distribution on Yahoo Properties. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. While our agreements with respect to these products, services, and content may provide that we will be indemnified against such liabilities, the ability to receive such indemnification may be disputed, could result in substantial costs to enforce or defend, and depends on the financial resources of the other party to the agreement, and any amounts received might not be adequate to cover our liabilities or the costs associated with defense of such proceedings. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner.. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise wrongfully provided to users, third parties could make claims against us. For example, we offer web-based e-mail services, which expose us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims, by our users and third parties, resulting from unsolicited e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, alleged violations of policies, property interests, or privacy protections, including civil or criminal laws, or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. We may also face purported consumer class actions or state actions relating to our online services, including our fee-based services (particularly in connection with any decision to discontinue a fee-based service). In addition, our customers, third parties, or government entities may assert claims or actions against us if our online services or technologies are used to spread or facilitate malicious or harmful code or applications.. Investigating and defending these types of claims are expensive, even if the claims are without merit or do not ultimately result in liability, and could subject us to significant monetary liability or cause a change in business practices that could negatively impact our ability to compete.. Certain of our metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business.. We present key metrics such as unique users, number of Ads Sold, number of Paid Clicks, Search click-driven revenue, Price-per-Click, Price-per-Ad, page views, mail messages sent and read, and searches that are calculated using unaudited internal company data. We periodically review, refine. 29. Table of Contents. and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and calculating these metrics. In addition, from time to time we provide, or rely on, certain other metrics, including those relating to the reach and effectiveness of our ads.. While our metrics are based on what we believe to be reasonable measurements and methodologies, there are inherent challenges in deriving our metrics across large online and mobile populations around the world. In addition, our user metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similar metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. Furthermore, over time we may revise or cease reporting certain metrics that we no longer believe are useful or meaningful measures of our performance and add new metrics which we believe are better measurements of performance.. If advertisers, publishers or partners do not perceive our metrics to be accurate, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, it could negatively affect our reputation, business and financial results.. Any failure to scale and adapt our existing technology architecture to manage expansion of user-facing services and to respond to rapid technological change could adversely affect our business.. As some of the most visited sites on the Internet, Yahoo Properties deliver a significant number of products, services, page views, and advertising impressions to users around the world. We expect our products and services to continue to expand and change significantly and rapidly in the future to accommodate new technologies, new devices, new Internet advertising solutions, and new means of content delivery.. In addition, widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies, or other technological or platform changes, could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. The technology architectures and platforms utilized for our services are highly complex and may not provide satisfactory security features or support in the future, as usage increases and products and services expand, change, and become more complex. In the future, we may make additional changes to our existing, or move to completely new, architectures, platforms and systems, such as the changes we have made in response to the increased use of mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. Such changes may be technologically challenging to develop and implement, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs or data loss, and may cause changes, delays or interruptions in service. These changes, delays, or interruptions in our service may cause our users, Affiliates and other advertising platform participants to become dissatisfied with our service or to move to competing providers or seek remedial actions or compensation. Further, to the extent that demands for our services increase, we will need to expand our infrastructure, including the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. This expansion is likely to be expensive and complex and require additional technical expertise. As we acquire users who rely upon us for a wide variety of services, it becomes more technologically complex and costly to retrieve, store, and integrate data that will enable us to track each user's preferences. Any difficulties experienced in adapting our architectures, platforms and infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic, to store user data, and track user preferences, together with the associated costs and potential loss of traffic, could harm our operating results, cash flows from operations, and financial condition.. We rely on third parties to provide the technologies necessary to deliver content, advertising, and services to our users, and any change in the licensing terms, costs, availability, or acceptance of these formats and technologies could adversely affect our business.. We rely on third parties to provide the technologies that we use to deliver the majority of the content, advertising, and services to our users. There can be no assurance that these providers will. 30. Table of Contents. continue to license their technologies or intellectual property to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Providers may change the fees they charge users or otherwise change their business model in a manner that slows the widespread acceptance of their technologies. In order for our services to be successful, there must be a large base of users of the technologies necessary to deliver our content, advertising, and services. We have limited or no control over the availability or acceptance of those technologies, and any change in the licensing terms, costs, availability, or user acceptance of these technologies could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers may take, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users and advertisers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. The adoption of any laws or regulations that limit access to the Internet by blocking, degrading or charging access fees to us or our users for certain services could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products, services and apps, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results.. Any failure to manage changes to our business could adversely affect our operating results.. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our business relies on data systems, billing systems, and financial reporting and control systems, among others. All of these systems have become increasingly complex in the recent past due to the growing complexity of our business, acquisitions of new businesses with different systems, and increased regulation over controls and procedures. To manage our business in a cost-effective manner, we will need to continue to upgrade and improve our data systems, billing systems, and other operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. In some cases, we are outsourcing administrative functions to lower-cost providers. These upgrades, improvements and outsourcing changes will require a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex. If we are unable to adapt our systems and put adequate controls in place in a timely manner, our business may be adversely affected. In particular, sustained failures of our billing systems to accommodate increasing numbers of transactions, to accurately bill users and advertisers, or to accurately compensate Affiliates could adversely affect the viability of our business model.. We have dedicated resources to provide a variety of premium enhancements to our products, services and apps, which might not prove to be successful in generating significant revenue for us.. We offer fee-based enhancements for many of our free services. The development cycles for these technologies are long and generally require investment by us. We have invested and will continue to invest in premium products, services and apps. Some of these premium products, services and apps might not generate anticipated revenue or might not meet anticipated user adoption rates. We have previously discontinued some non-profitable premium services and may discontinue others. General economic conditions as well as the rapidly evolving competitive landscape may affect users' willingness to pay for such premium services. If we cannot generate revenue from our premium. 31. Table of Contents. services that are greater than the cost of providing such services, our operating results could be harmed.. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities which could negatively impact our income tax provision, net income, and cash flow.. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. Our income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles.. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a U.S. multinational corporation, we are subject to changing tax laws both within and outside of the United States. We cannot predict the form or timing of potential legislative changes, but any newly enacted tax law could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. For example, several jurisdictions have sought to increase revenues by imposing new taxes on internet advertising or increasing general business taxes. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\"), which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits between affiliated entities in different tax jurisdictions. To the extent any of these proposals are enacted into legislation by OECD member countries, or if other international, consensus-based tax policies and principles are amended or implemented, they could adversely affect the amount of tax we pay and thereby our financial position and results of operations.. We earn a material amount of our income from outside the United States. As of December 31, 2016, we had undistributed foreign earnings of approximately $3.3 billion, related to our equity method investment in Yahoo Japan. While we do not currently anticipate repatriating these earnings, any repatriation of funds in foreign jurisdictions to the United States could result in higher effective tax rates for us and subject us to significant additional U.S. income tax liabilities.. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made.. The pending transaction with Verizon requires significant legal entity restructuring and realignment of corporate assets. While the restructuring and realignment are intended to be performed in the most tax efficient manner, there is no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized and that additional cash taxes won't become due.. Proprietary document formats may limit the effectiveness of our search technology by preventing our technology from accessing the content of documents in such formats, which could limit the effectiveness of our products and services.. A large amount of information on the Internet is provided in proprietary document formats. These proprietary document formats may limit the effectiveness of search technology by preventing the. 32. Table of Contents. technology from accessing the content of such documents. The providers of the software applications used to create these documents could engineer the document format to prevent or interfere with the process of indexing the document contents with search technology. This would mean that the document contents would not be included in search results even if the contents were directly relevant to a search. The software providers may also seek to require us to pay them royalties in exchange for giving us the ability to search documents in their format. If the search platform technology we employ is unable to index proprietary format web documents as effectively as our competitors' technology, usage of our search services might decline, which could cause our revenue to fall.. Adverse macroeconomic conditions could cause decreases or delays in spending by our advertisers and could harm our ability to generate revenue and our results of operations.. Advertising expenditures tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Since we derive most of our revenue from advertising, adverse macroeconomic conditions have caused, and future adverse macroeconomic conditions could cause, decreases or delays in advertising spending and negatively impact our advertising revenue and short-term ability to grow our revenue. Further, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable or early termination of agreements, whether resulting from customer bankruptcies or otherwise due to adverse macroeconomic conditions, could negatively impact our results of operations.. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to broad fluctuations. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $26.76 to $44.71 per share and the closing sale price on February 10, 2017 was $45.03 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as variations in quarterly operating results or announcements of technological innovations, significant transactions, or new features, products or services by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the operating and stock price performance of, or other developments involving, other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; trends in our industry; general economic conditions; and the operating performance and market valuation of Alibaba Group Holding Limited (\"Alibaba Group\") and Yahoo Japan in which we have investments. Following the closing of the Sale transaction with Verizon, our stock price will be materially impacted by the operating performance and market valuation of Alibaba Group and Yahoo Japan. The equity valuation of our investment in Yahoo Japan may be impacted due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We present our investment in Alibaba Group on our consolidated balance sheet as an available-for-sale marketable security. Consequently, the carrying value of this investment on our consolidated balance sheet will vary over time and fluctuations in its valuation may cause our stock price to fluctuate.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in our industry, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to operating performance. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would likely adversely impact the trading price of the 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 that we issued in November 2013 (the \"Notes\"). Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees who have been granted stock options or other stock-based awards. A sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization could lead to an impairment charge to our long-lived assets.. 33. Table of Contents. Delaware statutes and certain provisions in our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us.. Our Board has the authority to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Yahoo without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. Some provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock and the value of the $1.4375 billion aggregate principal amount of the Notes we issued in November 2013. In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third-party to gain control of our Board. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us.. Any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock and the Notes.. Risks Relating to the Notes. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid special interest, if any. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefore, or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted if we elect not to issue shares, which could harm our reputation and affect the trading price of our common stock.. 34. Table of Contents. The note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with the option counterparties. The note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. The initial strike price of the warrants was $71.24. Counterparties to the warrants may make adjustments to certain terms of the warrants upon the occurrence of specified events, including the announcement of the Stock Purchase Agreement, if the event results in a material change to the trading price of our common stock or the value of the warrants. To date, two counterparties have given us notices of adjustments reducing their warrant exercise prices.. In connection with establishing their initial hedge of the note hedge and warrant transactions, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates have purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Notes.. Any adverse change in the rating of the Notes or the Company may cause their trading price to decline.. While we did not solicit a credit rating on the Company or on the Notes, one rating service has rated both the Notes and the Company. If that rating service announces its intention to put the Company or the Notes on credit watch or lowers its rating on the Company or the Notes below any rating initially assigned to the Company or the Notes, the trading price of the Notes could decline.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as debt discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include the current period's amortization of the debt discount, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes.. 35. Table of Contents. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. 36. Table of Contents"
