[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited operating history. If we are unable to implement our business strategy as planned, we will be materially and adversely affected.. We commenced operations in 2012, and our business model is relatively untested and evolving. Businesses like ours that have a limited operating history and a limited client base present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. As a result, we cannot predict our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our results for prior periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for any future period, and we may not have sufficient additional capital to implement our business model. There can be no assurance that our business will be profitable or that it will be sustainable. The earnings potential of our proposed business is unproven, and the absence of an operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We may not be able to implement our business strategy as planned, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Failure of Front Yard to achieve desired results could result in drastically reduced management fees to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. In March 2015, we entered into the AMA with Front Yard. The AMA, which became effective on April 1, 2015, provides for the management fee structure described under \"Item 1. Business - Asset Management Agreement.\" The three components of the fee structure are the base management fee, which is currently 2.0% of Front Yard's average invested capital (as defined in the AMA); the conversion fee, which is 1.5% of the market value of the single-family homes leased by Front Yard for the first time during the quarter; and the incentive management fee, which is currently 25% of the amount, if any, by which Front Yard's return on invested capital (based on AFFO as defined in the AMA) exceeds an annual hurdle return rate of between 7.0% and 8.25% (depending on the 10-year treasury rate). To the extent Front Yard has an aggregate shortfall in its return rate over the previous seven quarters, that aggregate return rate shortfall gets added to the normal quarterly 1.75% return hurdle for the next quarter before we are entitled to an incentive management fee.. Since the effective date of the AMA, we have not yet earned any incentive management fees because Front Yard has not achieved a return in invested capital, as defined in the AMA, of greater than 1.75% in any quarter since April 1, 2015. In addition, since Front Yard's performance has resulted in shortfalls of the 1.75% return on invested capital for the past seven quarters, those shortfalls have been added to the return on invested capital Front Yard must achieve before entitling us to an incentive management fee. We cannot be certain as to whether or when we will earn an incentive management fee under the AMA. If Front Yard is unable to achieve a return on invested capital that entitles us to earn an incentive management fee, our operating results and financial condition would be significantly limited, which, absent additional new revenue streams, could materially and adversely affect us.. Front Yard is our primary client, and we are primarily reliant on Front Yard to generate our revenues. A loss of Front Yard as a client and/or our inability to obtain or develop new clients would materially adversely affect us.. Front Yard currently is our primary customer. The loss of this key customer or its failure to pay us would adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Despite Front Yard's or our efforts, Front Yard may fail to substantially grow or have adverse financial performance for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, failure to maintain adequate liquidity, an inability to grow through equity offerings and/or debt facilities, generation of poor or inadequate returns or an inability to, or substantial delays in, growing or monetizing its portfolio. Under the AMA, neither party is entitled to terminate the AMA prior to the end of the initial term or each renewal term. However, Front Yard has the ability to terminate us (a) \"for cause\" for certain events such as a material breach of the AMA and failure to cure such breach, (b) for certain other reasons. 9. (table of contents). such as its failure to achieve a return on invested capital of at least 7.0% for two consecutive fiscal years after the third anniversary of the AMA or (c) in connection with certain change of control events. There can be no assurance that Front Yard will not be entitled to terminate us prior to the end of the initial term or any renewal term, particularly after April 2018, if Front Yard's results do not achieve the required returns for two consecutive years. Front Yard may also make a decision to abandon the SFR business, which may have the constructive effect of terminating the AMA or drastically reducing our fees under the AMA.. Since we are heavily reliant on revenues earned from Front Yard, investors may obtain additional information about Front Yard in its SEC filings, including, without limitation, Front Yard's financial statements and other important disclosures therein, available at http://www.sec.gov and http://ir.frontyardresidential.com/financial-information.. We may not be able to obtain or develop additional clients on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to attract, develop and/or maintain additional clients may depend, in large part, on the success of Front Yard under our management and our ability to continue to develop and implement Front Yard's business plan profitably and enable Front Yard to maintain and grow its shareholder returns and dividends. We may be unable to reduce our reliance on Front Yard for management fees, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition and could adversely affect our ability to attract additional clients and the sustainability of our business model.. The success of our business is dependent on Front Yard and its ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of capital.. Front Yard may require additional working capital to implement its investment strategies and may need to utilize a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient capital to effectively carry out its business plan over the long term. We will have significant responsibilities in advising Front Yard on its capital raising activities. Our success is dependent on Front Yard's ability to obtain such capital. Front Yard utilizes various sources of liquidity, including, without limitation, accessing the capital markets to issue debt or equity securities; engaging in collateralized or other borrowings, including repurchase agreements and warehouse facilities from third party banks; or entering into securitization transactions, all or any of which may not be available or have terms that are not cost effective, therefore having an adverse impact on Front Yard's financial performance. Front Yard currently is our primary customer. The loss of this key customer or its failure to pay us would adversely affect our revenues, results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain additional clients on acceptable terms or at all. Therefore, we may be unable to reduce our reliance on Front Yard for management fees.. The asset management business is intensely competitive.. The asset management business is intensely competitive, driven by a variety of factors, including asset performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our asset management business competes with a number of other asset managers. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks:. • A number of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do;. • Our clients may not perform as well as the clients of our competitors;. • Several of our competitors and their clients have significant amounts of capital, and many of them have similar management objectives to ours, which may create additional competition for management opportunities;. • Some of these competitors' clients may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to our clients, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to funding opportunities;. • Some of our competitors' clients may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to facilitate the acquisition and management by their clients of a wider variety of assets and allow them to advise their clients to bid more aggressively than our clients for assets on which we would advise our clients to bid;. • There are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into the asset management business is expected to continue to result in increased competition;. • Some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by potential clients as having better expertise with regard to specific assets; and. • Other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit members of our management team and other employees away from us.. 10. (table of contents). Suboptimal economics of real estate-related insurance activities, or a failure to commence and/or grow the business of NewSource could adversely impact our investment in NewSource.. We invested $2.0 million in 100% of the common stock of NewSource during 2013, and we invested an additional $5.0 million in 2015. Despite the commencement in 2014 of NewSource's title reinsurance business operations, NewSource determined that the economics of the initial business activities did not warrant the continuation of its initial reinsurance quota share agreement with an unrelated third party. NewSource therefore transferred all of the risk of claims and future losses underwritten to an unrelated third party for a price of $3.2 million.. We are continuing to evaluate NewSource's real estate related insurance and reinsurance strategy and considering related opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop or grow NewSource's business strategy or operations or engage in insurance and reinsurance activities at all. In any such event, the business model for NewSource would become challenged or the growth of NewSource would become hampered, which would adversely affect the economics of our investment in NewSource and/or generate stockholder returns to us.. We are subject to the risks of securities laws liability and related civil litigation.. We may be subject to risk of securities litigation and derivative actions from time to time as a result of being publicly traded, including the remaining unresolved actions set forth in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\" There can be no assurance that any settlement or liabilities in such actions or any future lawsuits or claims against us would be covered or partially covered by our insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in one or more periods. While we and our Board of Directors deny the allegations of wrongdoing against us in the unresolved actions initiated against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome or timing of their resolutions. The range of possible resolutions could include determinations and judgments against us or settlements that could require substantial payments by us, including the costs of defending such suits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. An unidentified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. There can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not arise in the future or that any remediation efforts will be successful. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we could be required to restate our financial results or experience a decline in the price of our securities.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.. Our success depends on our senior management team, and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team. We depend on the services of members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our growth strategies and maintain and develop our client relationships. In the event that, for any reason, we are unable to retain our key personnel, it may be difficult for us to secure suitable replacements on acceptable terms. This would adversely impact the development and implementation of our growth strategies.. 11. (table of contents). The continuing unpredictability of the credit markets may restrict our clients' or our access to capital and may make it difficult or impossible for us to obtain any required additional financing.. The domestic and international credit markets continue to be unpredictable. In the event that we need additional capital for our business, we may have a difficult time obtaining it and/or the terms upon which we can obtain it would have an adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition, failures of our clients to raise capital or access capital markets could adversely impact their ability to grow and/or generate adequate returns on capital, which could adversely impact any management fees we earn.. Our business could be significantly impacted if we suffer failure or disruptions of our information systems.. We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day activities, most services of which are provided through ASPS. Thus, our business requires the continued operation of ASPS's sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, loss, system malfunction and other events that are beyond our control. Systems interruptions could reduce our ability to provide our services and could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our inability to replace or successfully replicate these information services from a third party or develop them internally could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Failure to retain the tax benefits provided by the USVI would adversely affect our financial performance.. We are incorporated under the laws of the USVI and are headquartered in the USVI. The USVI has an Economic Development Commission (the \"EDC\") that provides benefits (\"EDC Benefits\") to certain qualified businesses in the USVI that enable us to avail ourselves of significant tax benefits for a thirty year period. We received our certificate to operate as a company that qualifies for EDC Benefits as of February 1, 2013, which provides us with a 90% credit on our taxes so long as we comply with the requirements of the EDC and our certificate of benefits. It is possible that we may not be able to retain our qualifications for the EDC Benefits or that changes in U.S. federal, state, local or USVI taxation statutes or applicable regulations may cause a reduction in or an elimination of the EDC Benefits, all of which could result in a significant increase to our tax expense, and, therefore, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted on December 22, 2017 and made significant changes to the Code. Although management is still evaluating the effects of the TCJA, we do not believe that the TCJA will significantly impact our consolidated financial statements.. Our USVI operations may become subject to United States federal income taxation.. AAMC, our parent company incorporated under the laws of the USVI, intends to operate in a manner that will cause us to be treated as not engaging in a trade or business within the United States, which will cause us to be exempt from current United States federal income taxation on our net income. However, because there are no definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as any such determination is essentially factual in nature, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that we are engaged in a trade or business within the United States.. If the IRS were to successfully assert that we have been engaged in a trade or business within the United States in any taxable year, various adverse tax consequences could result, including the following:. • We may become subject to current United States federal income taxation on our net income from sources within the United States;. • We may be subject to United States federal income tax on a portion of our net investment income, regardless of its source;. • We may not be entitled to deduct certain expenses that would otherwise be deductible from the income subject to United States taxation; and. • We may be subject to United States branch profits tax on profits deemed to have been distributed out of the United States.. 12. (table of contents). United States persons who own shares may be subject to United States federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.. Significant potential adverse United States federal income tax consequences generally apply to any United States person who owns shares in a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\"). We cannot provide assurance that we will not be a PFIC in any future taxable year.. In general, we would be a PFIC for a taxable year if either (i) 75% or more of our income constitutes \"passive income\" or (ii) 50% or more of our assets produce \"passive income.\" Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. We believe that we are currently operating, and intend to continue operating, our business in a way that should not cause us to be a deemed PFIC; however, we cannot assure you the IRS will not successfully challenge this conclusion.. United States persons who, directly or indirectly or through attribution rules, own 10% or more of our shares (\"United States 10% Shareholders\"), based on either voting power or value, may be subject to the controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") rules. Under the CFC rules, each United States 10% Shareholder must annually include his pro rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income,\" even if no distributions are made. Also, all capital gains from the sale of PFIC shares will be treated as ordinary income for federal income tax purposes and thus are not eligible for preferential long-term capital gains rates.. We believe that the dispersion of our ordinary shares among holders will generally prevent new shareholders who acquire shares from being United States 10% Shareholders. We cannot assure you, however, that these rules will not apply to you. If you are a United States person, we strongly urge you to consult your own tax adviser concerning the CFC rules.. United States tax-exempt organizations who own shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization, you may recognize unrelated business taxable income with respect to our insurance-related income if a portion of our subpart F income is allocated to you. In general, subpart F income will be allocated to you if we are a CFC and you are a United States 10% Shareholder and certain exceptions do not apply. In general, with respect to insurance revenues related to NewSource, we will be treated as a CFC only if NewSource would be taxed as an insurance company were it a U.S. corporation, its applicable insurance liabilities exceed 25% of its total assets and elective relief provisions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any United States persons will be allocated subpart F income, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If you are a United States tax-exempt organization, we advise you to consult your own tax adviser regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income.. We may in the future become subject to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income provisions.. The Tax Cuts and Job Reform Act requires U.S. shareholders of CFCs to include in income, as a deemed dividend, the global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\") of the CFCs. The GILTI regime is designed to decrease the incentive for a U.S. group to shift corporate profits to low-taxed jurisdictions. We are not currently impacted by the GILTI provisions, as the entirety of the aggregate net income for each of our CFCs is excluded from our \"net tested income\" (the basis on which the tax is calculated), as it constitutes Subpart F income and is subject to an effective foreign tax rate greater than 90% of the maximum U.S. corporate income tax rate.. We cannot rule out the possibility that we will in the future find ourselves subject to the GILTI rules, should the income of our CFCs no longer be entirely Subpart F income and be taxed at a foreign tax rate greater than 90% if the U.S. corporate income tax rate.. Change in United States tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us and/or United States persons who own shares to United States income taxation on our undistributed earnings.. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether we are engaged in a United States trade or business, are a CFC or a PFIC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.. 13. (table of contents). The impact of the initiative of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in the United States Virgin Islands.. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. While the USVI is currently a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented internationally agreed tax standards, we are not able to predict if additional requirements will be imposed and, if so, whether changes arising from such additional requirements will subject us to additional taxes.. Concentration of Credit Risk. We maintain our cash and cash equivalents at financial or other intermediary institutions. The combined account balances at each institution typically exceed FDIC insurance coverage of $250,000 per depositor, and, as a result, there is a concentration of credit risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our cash and cash equivalent balances held at financial institutions exceeded FDIC insured limits. Any event that would cause a material portion of our cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions to be uninsured by the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationships. We could have conflicts with Front Yard, and our Directors or management could have conflicts of interest due to their relationship with Front Yard, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us.. We have engaged, and continue to engage, in a substantial amount of business with Front Yard. Conflicts may arise between Front Yard and us because of our ongoing agreement with Front Yard and because of the nature of our respective businesses.. Each of our executive officers is also an executive officer of Front Yard and has interests in our relationship with Front Yard that may be different than the interests of our stockholders. As a result, they may have obligations to us and Front Yard and could have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Front Yard. In particular, these individuals have a direct interest in the financial success of Front Yard that may encourage these individuals to support strategies in furtherance of the financial success of Front Yard that could potentially adversely impact us.. We follow policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with Front Yard, including where necessary, certain of our officers recusing themselves from discussions on, and approvals of transactions with Front Yard. We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (independent directors constitute a majority of our Board of Directors), and we will also seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Front Yard. Although we continue to seek ways to lessen many of these potential conflicts of interest, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Front Yard or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with Front Yard.. Our Directors have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours.. Our Directors may have other investments and business activities in addition to their interest in, and responsibilities to, us. Under the provisions of our Charter and our bylaws (the \"Bylaws\"), our Directors have no duty to abstain from exercising the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as ours or employ or otherwise engage any of the other Directors. If any of our Directors who are also directors, officers or employees of any company acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity outside of his capacity as one of our Directors, then our Bylaws provide that such Director will be permitted to pursue that corporate opportunity independently of us, so long as the Director has acted in good faith. Our Bylaws provide that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, such a Director will be deemed to have satisfied his fiduciary duties to us and will not be liable to us for pursuing such a corporate opportunity independently of us. This may create conflicts of interest between us and certain of our Directors and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our stockholders. As of this date, none of our Directors is directly involved as a director, officer or employee of a business that competes with us, but there can be no assurance that will remain unchanged in the future.. 14. (table of contents). Risks related to our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.. The price at which our common stock trades has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many things, including but not limited to, the following:. • variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations, liquidity or financial condition;. • changes in, or the failure to meet, our financial estimates or those of by securities analysts;. • actions or announcements by our competitors;. • potential conflicts of interest, or the discontinuance of our strategic relationships with Front Yard, ASPS and/or MSR;. • actual or anticipated accounting problems;. • regulatory actions;. • lack of liquidity;. • changes in the financial condition or stock price of Front Yard;. • changes in the market outlook for the real estate, mortgage or housing markets;. • technology changes in our business;. • changes in interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield;. • actions by our stockholders;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • general market, economic and political conditions, including an economic slowdown or dislocation in the global credit markets;. • failure to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NYSE MKT;. • failure of Front Yard to qualify or maintain qualification as a REIT;. • failure of Front Yard to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act;. • changes in accounting principles;. • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; and. • departure of our key personnel.. The market prices of securities of asset management service providers have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the market price of our common stock.. Furthermore, our small size and different investment characteristics may not continue to appeal to our current investor base that may seek to dispose of large amounts of our common stock. There is no assurance that there will be sufficient buying interest to offset those sales, and, accordingly, the market price of our common stock could be depressed and/or experience periods of high volatility.. Risks to Us Related to Front Yard's Business Risks and Operating Performance. Front Yard is our primary source of revenue and will drive our potential future growth. Any risk associated with Front Yard's business that would adversely affect its ability to generate revenue and pay distributions to its shareholders is a risk to our business, as our revenues, results of operations and financial condition significantly depend upon the management fees paid to us by Front Yard. Any risk that ultimately adversely affects Front Yard could adversely affect the revenues we can generate under the asset management agreement, our results of operations and our financial condition. The risks related to Front Yard's business are provided below.. Front Yard has a limited and evolving operating history. If Front Yard is unable to implement its business strategy as planned, it will be materially and adversely affected.. Front Yard commenced operations approximately four years ago, and its business model is relatively untested and evolving. Businesses like Front Yard's that have a limited operating history present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. As a result we cannot predict Front Yard's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Front Yard only began to generate residential rental revenue during 2013, and its historical financial results have been largely attributable to purchasing residential mortgage loans and other rental-related assets at a discount. As a result of the changes to its acquisition strategy and evolving market conditions, Front Yard has not completed any residential mortgage loan portfolio acquisitions since 2014, Front Yard may not pursue further acquisitions of such loans. Further, there can be no assurance that. 15. (table of contents). Front Yard will be able to identify and successfully acquire portfolios of SFR properties or related assets on favorable terms or at all.. We anticipate significant growth in Front Yard's rental portfolio, which may result in our inability to effectively manage its rental portfolio, including, but not limited to, delays in renovations, suboptimal tenant underwriting and other operational inefficiencies that could reduce Front Yard's profitability or damage its reputation. Generally, we expect that Front Yard's SFR portfolio may grow at an uneven pace, if at all, as opportunities to acquire SFR portfolios on acceptable terms may be irregularly timed and may involve large or small portfolios of SFR properties. The timing and extent of Front Yard's success in acquiring such assets cannot be predicted due to market conditions, limited financial resources or other constraints.. As a result of the foregoing developments, results from prior periods are not necessarily indicative of Front Yard's results for any future period, and Front Yard may not have sufficient additional capital to implement its business model. There can be no assurance that Front Yard's business will remain profitable or that its profitability will be sustainable. Any of these adverse consequences would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and business prospects.. Front Yard is operating in an emerging industry, and the long-term viability of its investment strategy on an institutional scale is unproven.. Large-scale institutional investment in single-family residential homes for rent is a relatively recent phenomenon that has emerged out of the mortgage and housing crisis that began in late 2007. Prior to that time, SFR homes were generally not viewed as viable assets for investment on a large scale by institutional investors. Consequently, the long-term viability of the SFR property investment strategy on an institutional scale has not yet been proven. As a participant in this emerging industry, Front Yard is subject to the risk that SFR properties may not prove to be a viable long-term investment strategy on an institutional scale for a permanent capital vehicle. If it turns out that this investment strategy is not a viable one, Front Yard would be materially and adversely affected and may not be able to sustain the growth of its assets and results from operations that it seeks.. Front Yard's failure to raise equity capital and/or obtain adequate debt financing could adversely affect its ability to increase its rental portfolio, manage its existing assets and generate stockholder returns.. Front Yard's success has been, may continue to be, largely dependent on its ability use its remaining free capital or to raise equity capital and obtain debt financing to increase the size of its rental portfolio, manage its existing assets and generate attractive stockholder returns. Front Yard requires significant financial resources and relies on cost-effective leverage to maintain its obligations under its debt facilities and to continue to acquire portfolios of SFR properties. If Front Yard is unable to continue to raise equity capital, or leverage its portfolio through financing facilities, its current portfolio and cash from operations may become inadequate to meet its financial obligations, and any such failures would have a material adverse impact on the management fees we earn under the AMA.. Front Yard uses leverage as a component of its financing strategy in an effort to increase its buying power and enhance its returns. No assurance can be provided that Front Yard will be able to timely access all funds available under its financing arrangements, refinance such financing arrangements or obtain other debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all.. In any event, limited availability of credit may have an adverse effect on Front Yard's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, thereby increasing financing costs and/or requiring Front Yard to accept financing with increasing restrictions. Front Yard's long-term ability to grow through additional investments will be limited if it cannot obtain additional debt or equity financing.. Front Yard may not be able to successfully operate its business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to its stockholders.. There can be no assurance that Front Yard will be able to successfully operate its business or generate sufficient cash to make distributions to its stockholders. Front Yard's ability to make or sustain distributions to its stockholders depends on many factors, including the following: the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy its investment strategy and its success in identifying and consummating such opportunities on favorable terms; the level and expected movement of home prices; the occupancy rates and rent levels of rental properties; the restoration, maintenance, marketing and other operating costs related to its SFR and REO properties; the level and volatility of interest rates; our ability to effectively manage a significant increase in the number of properties in Front Yard's SFR portfolio; its ability to sell its remaining mortgage loans on favorable terms; the availability of short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms; conditions in the. 16. (table of contents). financial, real estate, housing and mortgage markets and the general economic conditions, as to which no assurance can be given. We cannot assure you that Front Yard will be able to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns or will not seek investments with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns or that the value of its investments in the future will not decline substantially. Existing and future government regulations may result in additional costs or delays, which could adversely affect the implementation of Front Yard's investment strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Front Yard has leveraged its investments and expects to continue to do so, which may materially and adversely affect its return on investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to Front Yard's stockholders.. To the extent available, we intend to continue to leverage Front Yard's investments through borrowings, the level of which may vary based on the particular characteristics of Front Yard's investment portfolio and on market conditions. We have leveraged certain of Front Yard's investments to date through its repurchase agreements. When Front Yard enters into any repurchase agreement, it may sell securities, residential mortgage loans or residential properties to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receives cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same assets back to Front Yard at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash Front Yard receives from the lender when it initially sells the assets to the lender is less than the value of those assets, if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same assets back to Front Yard, it could incur a loss on the transaction. In addition, repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions or for other reasons. If such counterparty determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require Front Yard to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. Should this occur, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, Front Yard may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause it to incur further losses. In the event Front Yard is unable to satisfy a margin call, its counterparty may sell the collateral, which may result in significant losses to Front Yard.. Front Yard's repurchase and other financing agreements generally require it to comply with various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, profitability and its ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth, and to maintain minimum amounts of cash or cash equivalents sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. We expect any future financing arrangements will have similar provisions. In the event that Front Yard is unable to satisfy these requirements, it could be forced to sell additional investments at a loss which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard's repurchase and other financing agreements are complex and require a significant level of oversight by management. In part, this is due to the fact that the single-family residential properties and other assets that collateralize these facilities do not produce consistent cash flows and require specific activities to be performed at specific points in time in order to preserve value. Front Yard's inability to comply with the terms and conditions of these agreements could materially and adversely impact it. In addition, Front Yard's outstanding repurchase and other financing agreements contain, and we expect any future repurchase and other financing agreements will contain, events of default, including payment defaults, substantial margin calls, breaches of financial and other covenants and/or certain representations and warranties, cross-defaults, servicer termination events, guarantor defaults, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and other events of default customary for these types of agreements. Because Front Yard's financing agreements will typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under its other agreements to also declare a default. Any losses Front Yard incurs on its repurchase and other financing agreements could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard has utilized repurchase agreements, seller financing arrangements, term financing arrangements, loan agreements and securitization transactions to finance its portfolio and may in the future utilize other sources of borrowings, including bank credit facilities, warehouse lines of credit and structured financing arrangements, among others, each of which may have similar risks to repurchase agreement financing and securitizations, including, but not limited to, covenant compliance, events of default, acceleration and margin calls. The percentage of leverage Front Yard employs, which could increase substantially in the future, varies depending on assets in its portfolios, its available capital, its ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders' and rating agencies' estimate of the stability of its investment portfolio's cash flow. There can be no assurance that new sources of financing will be available to Front Yard in the future or that existing sources of financing will continue to be available to it. Front Yard's governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt it may incur. Front Yard's return on investments and cash available for distribution to its stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of its financing relative to the income that can be derived from the investments acquired. Front Yard's debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. Front Yard may not be able to meet its debt service obligations and, to the extent that it cannot, it risks the loss of some or all of its assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations.. 17. (table of contents). If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Front Yard utilizes non-recourse long-term financing structures, and such structures expose it to risks which could result in losses to Front Yard.. Front Yard currently utilizes securitization and other non-recourse long-term financing for certain of its investments and intends to continue to do so if, and to the extent, available. In such structures, Front Yard's lenders typically have only a claim against the assets collateralizing the debt rather than a general claim against Front Yard as an entity, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, long-term financing structures may offer significantly less flexibility to refinance or terminate on cost-effective terms or at all and, as a result, could make it more difficult for Front Yard to capitalize on changes in market conditions, including the availability of less expensive debt. In the event it is unable to renew or refinance existing long-term facilities, Front Yard may increase its reliance on short-term facilities, which would likely be recourse to Front Yard as an entity.. Front Yard may also continue to finance its investments with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. If Front Yard is unable to renew, refinance or obtain new long-term and/or short-term facilities, it may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price. In such an event, Front Yard's overall results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely impacted, which would adversely impact our ability to generate management fees.. Front Yard's inability to make interest and/or principal payments on the seller financing obtained in connection with certain of its acquisitions would have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with Front Yard's acquisition of 4,262 homes on September 30, 2016 (the \"HOME SFR Transaction\") and 3,465 homes in three closings during 2017 (the \"HOME Flow Transaction\"), certain of Front Yard's subsidiaries that own the underlying properties (each a \"HOME Borrower\"), borrowed approximately 75% of the aggregate purchase price for each transaction. These loans (the \"HOME SFR Loans\") are each secured by the membership interests in each HOME Borrower and the properties and other assets held by such HOME Borrower. Upon the occurrence of a default of the payment of principal and/or interest on one or more of the HOME SFR Loans, recourse may generally be had against the assets of the applicable HOME Borrower and the membership interests in such HOME Borrower. The primary security and source of payment for the HOME SFR Loans is the cash flows generated by the properties and the other collateral described in the underlying loan agreements (the \"HOME SFR Loan Agreements\"). Since revenues from the properties held by the relevant HOME Borrower generally serve as the primary source for monthly payments due on the corresponding HOME SFR Loan, if revenue from the properties is reduced or if expenses incurred in the operation of the properties increase, the ability of such HOME Borrower to make payments with respect to such HOME SFR Loan may be impaired. Similarly, the HOME SFR Loan Agreements require the applicable HOME Borrower to make a balloon payment at the ultimate maturity date of the corresponding HOME SFR Loan. The ability of the relevant HOME Borrower to sell and/or refinance the properties and to make the payment on the maturity date or the equity owner of the HOME Borrower (each a \"HOME Equity Owner\"), to sell and/or refinance its equity interest in such HOME Borrower to timely perform its guaranty obligations with respect to such maturity date payment, could be impaired by a decline in the value of the collateral properties. If a HOME Borrower is unable to make payments under the applicable HOME SFR Loan or fails to make payment at maturity, the lender would be able to take possession/title to the membership interests of such HOME Borrower and the properties and other assets of such HOME Borrower to satisfy and discharge the corresponding HOME SFR Loan obligations. In such an event, Front Yard's overall results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. Even though the HOME SFR Loans are non-recourse to Front Yard and all of its subsidiaries other than the relevant HOME Equity Owner and HOME Borrower, Front Yard has agreed to limited bad act indemnification obligations to the lender for the payment of (i) certain losses arising out of certain bad or wrongful acts of the HOME Equity Owners and HOME Borrowers with respect to the HOME SFR Loans and (ii) a portion of the principal amount of the HOME SFR Loans and certain other obligations under the HOME SFR Loan Agreements in the event Front Yard causes certain voluntary bankruptcy events of the applicable HOME Equity Owner or HOME Borrower. Any of such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard's results of operations and/or financial condition.. Front Yard may incur significant costs in renovating its properties, and it may underestimate the costs or amount of time necessary to complete restorations.. While a substantial portion of the SFR properties Front Yard has acquired to date meet its rental specifications at the time of acquisition, properties frequently require additional renovations prior to renting. Before renting a property, Front Yard's. 18. (table of contents). Property Managers perform a detailed assessment, with an on-site review of the property, to identify the scope of renovation to be completed. Beyond customary repairs, we may, on Front Yard's behalf, instruct the Property Managers to undertake improvements designed to optimize the overall property appeal and increase the value of the property. Though we endeavor to conduct property inspections and due diligence prior to Front Yard's acquisition of new SFR portfolios, we expect that nearly all of Front Yard's rental properties will require some level of renovation immediately upon their acquisition or in the future following expiration of a lease or otherwise. Front Yard may acquire properties that we plan to extensively renovate and restore. In addition, in order to reposition properties in the rental market, Front Yard will be required to make ongoing capital improvements and may need to perform significant renovations and repairs from time to time. Consequently, Front Yard is exposed to the risks inherent in property renovation, including potential cost overruns, increases in labor and materials costs, delays by contractors in completing work, delays in the timing of receiving necessary work permits and certificates of occupancy, poor workmanship and improper oversight by its Property Managers. If our assumptions regarding the cost or timing of renovations across Front Yard's properties prove to be materially inaccurate, it may be more costly or take significantly more time than anticipated to develop and grow its SFR portfolio, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. The availability of portfolios of single-family residential properties for purchase on favorable terms may decline as market conditions change, our industry matures and/or additional purchasers for such portfolios emerge, and the prices for such portfolios may increase, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. In recent years, there has been an increase in supply of single-family residential property portfolios available for sale. Because Front Yard operates in an emerging industry, market conditions may be volatile, and the prices at which portfolios of single-family residential properties can be acquired may increase from time to time, or permanently, due to new market participants seeking such portfolios, a decrease in the supply of desirable portfolios or other adverse changes in the geographic areas that we may target from time to time. For these reasons, the supply of single-family residential properties that Front Yard may acquire may decline over time, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard and its growth prospects.. Portfolios of properties that Front Yard has acquired or may acquire may include properties that do not fit its investment criteria, and divestiture of such properties may be costly or time consuming or both, which may adversely affect its operating results.. Front Yard acquired, and expects to continue to acquire, portfolios of single-family residential properties, many of which are, or will be, subject to existing leases. To the extent the management and leasing of such properties has not been consistent with its property management and leasing standards, Front Yard may be subject to a variety of risks, including risks relating to the condition of the properties, the credit quality and employment stability of the tenants and compliance with applicable laws, among others. In addition, financial and other information provided to Front Yard regarding such portfolios during our due diligence may be inaccurate, and Front Yard may not be able to obtain relief under contractual remedies, if any. If Front Yard concludes that certain properties acquired as part of a portfolio do not fit its investment criteria, it may decide to sell such properties and may be required to renovate the properties prior to sale, to hold the properties for an extended marketing period and/or sell the property at an unfavorable price, any of which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Competition in identifying and acquiring residential rental assets could adversely affect Front Yard's ability to implement its business strategy, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard faces competition from various sources for investment opportunities, including REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds, partnerships, developers and others. Some third-party competitors have substantially greater financial resources and access to capital than Front Yard does and may be able to accept more risk than Front Yard can. Competition from these companies may reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities available to Front Yard or increase the bargaining power of asset owners seeking to sell, which would increase the prices of assets. If such events occur, Front Yard's ability to implement its business strategy could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. Given the existing competition, complexity of the market and requisite time needed to make such investments, no assurance can be given that Front Yard will be successful in acquiring investments that generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Furthermore, there is no assurance that such investments, once acquired, will perform as expected. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 19. (table of contents). Failure of ASPS or MSR to effectively perform their obligations under their respective agreements with Front Yard could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard has engaged ASPS and MSR to provide services. If for any reason Front Yard's Property Managers are unable to perform the services described under these agreements at the level and/or the cost anticipated or fail to allocate sufficient resources to meet Front Yard's needs for additional services under these agreements, qualified alternate service providers may not be readily available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect Front Yard's performance. The performance of Front Yard's SFR portfolio will be affected by management decisions relating to the properties, which in turn may be affected by events or circumstances impacting its Property Managers or their respective affiliates, or the financial condition or results of operations of any of the foregoing. In certain circumstances and subject to the restrictions set forth in the property management agreements between each of Front Yard and its Property Managers, Front Yard's Property Managers have broad discretion with the respect to the management of the properties, including, without limitation, certain renovations, maintenance and certain matters related to leasing, including marketing and selection of tenants. Front Yard's Property Managers do not have long-term established track records to demonstrate their successful operation over a significant period of time. It is difficult to evaluate potential future performance of Front Yard's Property Managers and their ability to continue to perform management services effectively or within Front Yard's existing cost and expense assumptions without the benefit of such established track records.. Front Yard's Property Managers' ability to perform their obligations under the respective property management services agreements will be affected by various factors, including, among other things, their ability to hire sufficient personnel and retain key personnel, the number of Front Yard's properties that they manage and the volume of properties under management for their other clients. Increases in the number of properties under management by Front Yard's Property Managers that Front Yard may purchase or that the Property Managers themselves manage away from Front Yard may require them to hire additional qualified personnel. No assurance can be made that either of the Property Managers will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel or in integrating any new personnel into their respective organizations and into the respective property management structures for Front Yard's acquired properties. Moreover, as the size of Front Yard's Property Managers' respective property management portfolios increases, the resources dedicated to Front Yard could decrease or require its Property Managers' personnel to focus on clients other than Front Yard. Such a decrease in productivity may adversely affect the management of Front Yard's properties.. Front Yard's Property Managers' failure to perform the services under their respective property management agreements or Front Yard's inability to retain qualified alternate service providers to replace and/or supplement them could result in a material adverse effect on Front Yard.. Termination of a Property Manager could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard's business, results of operations and financial condition.. In certain limited circumstances, Front Yard is permitted or required to terminate a Property Manager in connection with their management of all or a portion of the SFR portfolio that they currently manage. There is a high risk of a disruption in Front Yard's operations and possible lapse in quality should the applicable portfolio of properties experience a change in operators or key leadership personnel, particularly in the transition period immediately following such changes. There is no assurance that one or more adequate replacement property managers capable of managing the relevant portfolio of SFR properties would be available and willing to assume the existing Property Manager's duties upon terms (including the compensation) that are the same or more favorable than those set forth in the existing property management agreement with the relevant Property Manager. Even if one or more replacement property managers were engaged, there is no assurance that such replacement managers individually or collectively would be able to perform management services adequately or within existing cost and expense assumptions.. If any of these foregoing risks materialize, this would have a material adverse effect on the performance of these properties or could cause a default of Front Yard's obligations under the MSR loan agreement, and Front Yard's business, results of operations and financial condition would therefore be materially harmed.. Front Yard may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting the single-family rental properties in which its investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.. Front Yard's assets are not subject to any geographic diversification requirements or concentration limitations, and, as a result, circumstances or events that impact a geographic region in which Front Yard has a significant concentration of properties, including a downturn in regional economic conditions or natural disasters, could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. 20. (table of contents). Entities that sell residential rental portfolios may group the portfolios by location or other metrics that could result in a concentration of Front Yard's portfolio by geography, SFR property characteristics and/or borrower or tenant demographics. Such concentration could increase the risk of loss to Front Yard if the particular concentration in its portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergoing adverse developments. In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where the properties or borrowers are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics, oversupply, reduced demand and other factors) may have an adverse effect on the value of its investments. A material decline in the demand for single-family housing or rentals in the areas where Front Yard owns assets may materially and adversely affect Front Yard. Lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among Front Yard's investments. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Short-term leases of residential property expose Front Yard more quickly to the effects of declining market rents.. We anticipate that a majority of Front Yard's leases to tenants of SFR properties will be for a term of one to two years. As these leases permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, we anticipate Front Yard's rental revenues will be affected by declines in market rents more quickly than if its leases were for longer terms. Short-term leases may result in high turnover, resulting in additional cost to renovate and maintain the property and lower occupancy levels. Because Front Yard has a limited operating history, its tenant turnover rate and related cost estimates may be less accurate than if we had more operating data upon which to base these estimates.. Front Yard may be unable to secure funds for property restoration or other capital improvements, which could limit its ability to attract, retain or replace tenants.. When Front Yard acquires or otherwise takes title to single-family properties or when tenants fail to renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, Front Yard generally will be required to expend funds for property restoration and leasing commissions in order to lease the property. If Front Yard has not established reserves or set aside sufficient funds for such expenditures, it may have to obtain financing from other sources, as to which no assurance can be given. Front Yard may also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to restore its properties. If Front Yard needs to secure financing for capital improvements in the future but are unable to secure such financing on favorable terms or at all, Front Yard may be unable or unwilling to make capital improvements or it may be required or may choose to defer such improvements. If this happens, Front Yard's properties may suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or decreased marketability, a decline in value or decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property or existing tenants not renewing their leases. If Front Yard does not have access to sufficient funding in the future, it may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to its properties, and its properties' ability to generate revenue may be significantly impaired. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Front Yard's revenue and expenses are not directly correlated, and, because a large percentage of its costs and expenses are fixed and some variable expenses may not decrease over time, it may not be able to adapt its cost structure to offset any declines in its revenue.. Many of the expenses associated with Front Yard's business, such as acquisition costs, restoration and maintenance costs, HOA fees, personal and real property taxes, insurance, compensation and other general expenses are fixed and would not necessarily decrease proportionally with any decrease in revenue. Front Yard's assets also will likely require a significant amount of ongoing capital expenditure. Front Yard's expenses, including capital expenditures, will be affected by, among other things, any inflationary increases, and cost increases may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. Certain expenses, such as HOA fees, taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are recurring in nature and may not decrease on a per-unit basis as Front Yard's portfolio grows through additional property acquisitions. By contrast, Front Yard's revenue is affected by many factors beyond our control, such as the availability and price of alternative rental housing and economic conditions in its markets. As a result, Front Yard may not be able to fully, or even partially, offset any increase in its expenses with a corresponding increase in its revenues. In addition, state and local regulations may require Front Yard to maintain its properties, even if the cost of maintenance is greater than the potential benefit. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Competition could limit Front Yard's ability to lease single-family rental properties or increase or maintain rents.. Front Yard's SFR properties, when acquired, will compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including rental apartments, condominiums and other single-family homes available for rent as well as new and existing condominiums and. 21. (table of contents). single-family homes for sale. Front Yard's competitors' SFR properties may be better quality, in a more desirable location or have leasing terms more favorable than Front Yard can provide. In addition, Front Yard's ability to compete and generate favorable returns depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, the financial condition and liquidity of current and prospective renters, availability and cost of capital, taxes and governmental regulations. Given Front Yard's significant competition, we cannot assure you that it will be successful in acquiring or managing SFR properties that generate favorable returns, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. If rents in Front Yard's markets do not increase sufficiently to keep pace with rising costs of operations, its operating results and cash available for distribution will decline.. The success of Front Yard's business model will substantially depend on conditions in the SFR property market in its geographic markets. Front Yard's asset acquisitions are premised on assumptions about, among other things, occupancy and rent levels. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, Front Yard's operating results and cash available for distribution will be lower than expected, potentially materially. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees. Rental rates and occupancy levels have benefited in recent periods from macroeconomic trends affecting the U.S. economy and residential real estate and mortgage markets in particular, including the following:. • a tightening of credit that has made it more difficult to finance a home purchase, combined with efforts by consumers generally to reduce their exposure to credit;. • economic and employment conditions that have increased foreclosure rates; and. • reduced real estate values that challenged the traditional notion that homeownership is a stable investment.. A decrease in rental rates would have a material adverse effect on the performance of Front Yard's SFR portfolio or could cause a default of its obligations under one or more financing agreements, and Front Yard's business, results of operations and financial condition would therefore be materially harmed.. If the current trend favoring renting rather than homeownership reverses, the single-family rental market could decline.. The SFR market is currently significantly larger than in historical periods. We do not expect the favorable trends in the SFR market to continue indefinitely. Eventually, continued strengthening of the U.S. economy and job growth, together with the large supply of foreclosed single-family residential properties, the current availability of low residential mortgage rates and government sponsored programs promoting home ownership, may contribute to a stabilization or reversal of the current trend that favors renting rather than homeownership. In addition, we expect that as investors increasingly seek to capitalize on opportunities to purchase undervalued housing properties and convert them to productive uses, the supply of SFR properties will decrease and the competition for tenants will intensify. A softening of the rental property market in Front Yard's markets would adversely affect its operating results and cash available for distribution, potentially materially. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. Suboptimal tenant underwriting and defaults by Front Yard's tenants may materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard's success will depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain qualified tenants for its properties. This will depend, in turn, upon Front Yard's ability to screen applicants, identify good tenants and avoid tenants who may default. Front Yard will inevitably make mistakes in its selection of tenants, and it may rent to tenants whose default on its leases or failure to comply with the terms of the lease or HOA regulations could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. For example, tenants may default on payment of rent; make unreasonable and repeated demands for service or improvements; make unsupported or unjustified complaints to regulatory or political authorities; make use of Front Yard's properties for illegal purposes; damage or make unauthorized structural changes to its properties that may not be fully covered by security deposits; refuse to leave the property when the lease is terminated; engage in domestic violence or similar disturbances; disturb nearby residents with noise, trash, odors or eyesores; fail to comply with HOA regulations; sub-let to less desirable individuals in violation of Front Yard's leases or permit unauthorized persons to live with them. The process of evicting a defaulting tenant from a family residence can be adversarial, protracted and costly. Furthermore, some tenants facing eviction may damage or destroy the property. Damage to Front Yard's properties may significantly delay re-leasing after eviction, necessitate expensive repairs, reduce the rental revenue generated by the property or impair its value. In addition, Front Yard will incur turnover costs associated with re-leasing the properties, such as marketing expenses and brokerage commissions, and will not collect revenue while the property is vacant. Although Front Yard will attempt to work with tenants to prevent such damage or destruction, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in all or most cases. Such tenants will not only cause Front Yard not to achieve its financial objectives for the properties in which they live, but may subject Front Yard to liability, and may damage Front Yard's reputation with its other tenants and in the communities where it does business. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to. 22. (table of contents). generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard.. Front Yard carries commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to its SFR properties on terms we consider commercially reasonable. However, many of the policies covering casualty losses are subject to substantial deductibles and exclusions, and Front Yard will be self-insured up to the amount of the deductibles and exclusions. For example, Front Yard may not always be fully insured against losses arising from floods, windstorms, fires, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism or civil unrest because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, Front Yard could lose its capital invested in a property or group of properties as well as the anticipated future revenues from affected SFR properties or groups of properties. Further, inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also prevent Front Yard from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a property after it has been damaged or destroyed.. In the event that Front Yard incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of its assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and Front Yard could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Further, if an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, Front Yard would incur the cost of defense and settlement with or court ordered damages to that third party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could adversely affect Front Yard's financial condition, operating results, cash flows and ability to make distributions on its common stock.. A significant number of Front Yard's single-family rental properties may be part of homeowners' associations. Front Yard and its renters will be subject to the rules and regulations of such homeowners' associations which may be arbitrary or restrictive and violations of such rules may subject us to additional fees and penalties and litigation which may be costly.. A significant number of Front Yard's SFR properties and non-rental REO properties may be subject to HOAs which are private entities that regulate the activities of and levy assessments on properties in a residential subdivision. Some of the HOAs that will govern Front Yard's SFR and REO properties may enact onerous or arbitrary rules that restrict Front Yard's ability to renovate, market or lease its SFR properties or require it to renovate or maintain such properties at standards or costs that are in excess of our planned operating budgets. Such rules may include requirements for landscaping, limitations on signage promoting a property for lease or sale or the use of specific construction materials to be used in renovations. Some HOAs also impose limits on the number of property owners who may rent their homes which, if met or exceeded, may cause Front Yard to incur additional costs to sell the affected property and opportunity costs of lost rental income. Furthermore, many HOAs impose restrictions on the conduct of occupants of homes and the use of common areas, and Front Yard may have renters who violate these HOA rules for which Front Yard may be liable as the property owner. Additionally, the boards of directors of the HOAs that will govern its SFR and REO properties may not make important disclosures or may block Front Yard's access to HOA records, initiate litigation, restrict its ability to sell, impose assessments or arbitrarily change the HOA rules. Front Yard may be unaware of or unable to review or comply with certain HOA rules before acquiring an SFR or REO property, and any such excessively restrictive or arbitrary regulations may cause Front Yard to sell such property, if possible, prevent it from renting such property or otherwise reduce its cash flow from such property. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect Front Yard's and our results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on information supplied by prospective tenants in managing Front Yard's business.. We rely on information supplied to us by prospective tenants in their rental applications as part of our due diligence process to make leasing decisions, and we cannot be certain that this information is accurate. In particular, we rely on information submitted by prospective tenants regarding household income, tenure at current job, number of children and size of household. Moreover, these applications are submitted to us at the time we evaluate a prospective tenant, and we do not require tenants to provide us with updated information during the terms of their leases, notwithstanding the fact that this information can, and frequently does, change over time. Even though this information is not updated, we will use it to evaluate the overall average credit characteristics of Front Yard's portfolio over time. If tenant-supplied information is inaccurate or Front Yard's tenants' creditworthiness declines over time, we may make poor leasing decisions and Front Yard's portfolio may contain more credit risk than we believe exists, which could harm Front Yard's and our results of operations and financial condition.. 23. (table of contents). Failure of Front Yard's third party mortgage servicers to effectively perform their servicing obligations under the servicing agreements could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard.. Front Yard is contractually obligated to service its remaining residential mortgage loans. Front Yard does not have any employees, servicing platforms, licenses or technical resources necessary to service its mortgage loans. Consequently, Front Yard has engaged mortgage servicers to service the mortgage loans in its portfolio. If for any reason, Front Yard's mortgage servicers are unable to service these loans at the level and/or the cost that we anticipate, or if Front Yard fails to pay or otherwise defaults under the servicing agreements and its mortgage servicers cease to act as Front Yard's servicers, alternate servicers may not be readily available on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard.. Difficulties in selling REO properties could limit Front Yard's flexibility and/or harm its liquidity.. Federal tax laws may limit Front Yard's ability to earn a gain on the sale of its properties if it is found to have held or acquired the properties with the intent to resell, and this limitation may adversely affect its willingness to sell REO properties under favorable conditions or if necessary for funding purposes. Front Yard typically contributes REO properties that will not meet its rental profile to its taxable REIT subsidiary in order to sell and generate gains or losses at the taxable REIT subsidiary upon such sales. In addition, Front Yard's REO properties that it intends to sell may at times be difficult to dispose of quickly or at favorable prices. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in Front Yard's markets may limit its ability to either sell properties that it deems unsuitable for rental or change or reduce the REO properties in its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Front Yard's failure to sell or delays in selling its REO properties could potentially cause a strain on its liquidity, and it may be forced to reduce prices and/or continue to hold such REO properties without leverage, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. The growth of Front Yard's SFR portfolio, at least in the short term, is expected to be partially dependent on its ability to sell non-rental REO properties. If Front Yard is unable to sell these assets at optimal prices or on a timely basis, or if the market shifts, creating lower sales prices, Front Yard's ability to utilize the equity embedded in these assets would be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to convert the proceeds of such sales into buying power for the acquisition of SFR properties. Furthermore, a large portion of the sale proceeds of such non-rental REOs are utilized to purchase the assets off of Front Yard's repurchase and loan facilities for which the assets are collateral. If a higher than expected portion of the loan sale consideration must be utilized to repurchase assets off of its facilities, Front Yard's ability to purchase SFR properties may also be adversely affected, which would slow the growth of its rental portfolio.. Front Yard's SFR and REO properties are not liquid assets, which could limit its ability to vary its portfolio or to realize the value at which such assets are carried if it is required to dispose of them.. Front Yard's SFR and REO properties are not liquid assets, which could limit Front Yard's ability to vary its portfolio or to realize the value at which such assets are carried if Front Yard is required to dispose of them. Front Yard's inability to sell individual or portfolios of SFR and/or REO properties on acceptable terms and/or in accordance with its anticipated timing could materially and adversely affect Front Yard's financial condition.. Front Yard's inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans could increase its costs and/or diminish its expected return on investments.. Front Yard's ability to seek alternative resolutions for the underlying properties and, in certain cases, where appropriate, promptly foreclose upon defaulted residential mortgage loans plays a critical role in the valuation of the residential mortgage assets in which it has invested and the expected return on those investments. Certain of the mortgage loans in Front Yard's portfolio may already be in foreclosure proceedings, in which case conversion could be as soon as three to six months, but in other cases conversion could take up to 24 months or longer. There are a variety of factors that may inhibit Front Yard's ability, through its mortgage servicers, to foreclose upon a residential mortgage loan and get access to the real property within the timelines modeled as part of the valuation process. These factors include, without limitation: state foreclosure timelines and deferrals associated therewith (including with respect to litigation, bankruptcy and statute of limitations); unauthorized occupants living in the property; federal, state or local legislative action or initiatives designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures and that serve to delay the foreclosure process; HAMP and similar programs that require specific procedures to be followed to explore the refinancing of a residential mortgage loan prior to the commencement of a foreclosure proceeding; declines in real estate values and sustained high levels of unemployment that increase the number of foreclosures and place additional pressure on the judicial and administrative systems.. 24. (table of contents). In addition, certain issues, including \"robo-signing,\" have been identified throughout the mortgage industry that relate to affidavits used in connection with the residential mortgage loan foreclosure process. A portion of Front Yard's investments are sub-performing and non-performing residential mortgage loans, many of which are already subject to foreclosure proceedings. There can be no assurance that similar practices have not been followed in connection with residential mortgage loans that are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. To the extent we determine that any of the loans in Front Yard's portfolio are impacted by these issues, Front Yard may be required to recommence the foreclosure proceedings relating to such loans, thereby resulting in additional delay that could have the effect of increasing its costs and/or diminishing its expected return on its investments. The uncertainty surrounding these issues could also result in legal, regulatory or industry changes to the foreclosure process as a whole, any or all of which could lengthen the foreclosure process and negatively impact Front Yard's business.. Fair values of Front Yard's mortgage loans may not be precise and may materially and adversely affect its operating results, which, in turn, would materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. The values of Front Yard's remaining mortgage loans may not be precisely determinable. We measure the fair value of Front Yard's mortgage loans monthly, but the fair value at which Front Yard's mortgage loans are recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. Ultimate realization of the value of a mortgage loan depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond our control. Further, our fair value determination is only an estimate based on a number of factors incorporated into our mortgage loan valuation model and requires judgment of the price at which a mortgage loan can be sold since market prices of mortgage loans can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. In certain cases, our assessment of the fair value of Front Yard's mortgage loans includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of Front Yard's mortgage loans are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If Front Yard were to liquidate a particular mortgage loan, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such mortgage loan was recorded. We could be materially and adversely affected by negative determinations that reduce the fair value of Front Yard's mortgage loans, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.. We value the properties underlying Front Yard's mortgage loans and recognize unrealized gains in each period when Front Yard's mortgage loans are transferred to real estate owned. The fair value of residential properties is estimated using broker price opinions (\"BPOs\") provided by third-party brokers. BPOs are subject to the judgments of the particular broker formed by visiting the property, assessing general home values in the area, reviewing comparable listings and reviewing comparable completed sales. These judgments may vary among brokers and may fluctuate over time based on housing market activities and the influx of additional comparable listings and sales. Front Yard's results could be materially and adversely affected if the judgments used by the brokers prove to be incorrect or inaccurate.. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We utilize analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of Front Yard's investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject Front Yard to potential risks.. We rely heavily on models and data, including analytical models (both proprietary models developed by us and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by third parties. Models and data are used to value Front Yard's assets or potential investments and also in connection with performing due diligence on Front Yard's investments. In the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, Front Yard may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether, all of which could adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. 25. (table of contents). Changes in global economic and capital market conditions, including periods of generally deteriorating occupancy and real estate industry fundamentals, may materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. There are risks to the ownership of real estate and real estate related assets, including decreases in residential property values, changes in global, national, regional or local economic, demographic and real estate market conditions as well as other factors particular to the locations of Front Yard's investments. A prolonged recession and a slow recovery could materially and adversely affect Front Yard as a result of, among other items, the following:. • joblessness or unemployment rates that adversely affect the local economy;. • an oversupply of or a reduced demand for SFR properties for rent;. • a decline in employment or lack of employment growth;. • the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases or fulfill their lease obligations;. • a decline in rental rate, which may be accentuated since we expect Front Yard to generally have rent terms of one to two years;. • rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing that could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs;. • changes in interest rates and availability and terms of debt financing; and. • economic conditions that could cause an increase in Front Yard's operating expenses such as increases in property taxes, utilities and routine maintenance.. These conditions could also adversely impact the financial condition and liquidity of the renters that will occupy Front Yard's real estate properties and, as a result, their ability to pay rent to Front Yard.. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect Front Yard's results of operations and cash flows.. Increased inflation could have an adverse impact on interest rates, property management expenses and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than Front Yard's rental and other revenue. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income without an accompanying reduction in Front Yard's expenses. Accordingly, inflation or deflation may adversely affect Front Yard's results of operations and cash flows, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. Changes in applicable laws or noncompliance with applicable law could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. As an owner of real estate, Front Yard is required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, landlord-tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to Front Yard's business operations. Noncompliance with laws or regulations could expose Front Yard to liability.. Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from Front Yard's need to comply with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord-tenant laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the rehabilitation, use and operation of Front Yard's SFR properties, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Single-family residential properties that are subject to foreclosure or short-sales are subject to risks of theft, vandalism or other damage that could impair their value.. When a residential property is subject to foreclosure, it is possible that the homeowner may cease to maintain the property adequately or that the property may be abandoned by the homeowner and become susceptible to theft or vandalism. Lack of maintenance, theft and vandalism can substantially impair the value of the property. To the extent Front Yard initiates foreclosure proceedings, some of its properties could be impaired.. Contingent or unknown liabilities could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Front Yard's acquisition activities are subject to many risks. Front Yard may acquire properties that are subject to unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for or with respect to liens attached to properties, unpaid real estate taxes, utilities or. 26. (table of contents). HOA charges for which a prior owner remains liable, clean-up or remediation of environmental conditions or code violations, claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the acquired properties and tax liabilities, among other things. In each case, Front Yard's acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown or contingent liabilities or conditions. As a result, if any such liability were to arise relating to Front Yard's properties, or if any adverse condition exists with respect to Front Yard's properties that is in excess of its insurance coverage, Front Yard might have to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. The properties Front Yard acquires may also be subject to covenants, conditions or restrictions that restrict the use or ownership of such properties, including prohibitions on leasing or requirements to obtain the approval of HOAs prior to leasing. We may not discover such restrictions during the acquisition process and such restrictions may adversely affect Front Yard's ability to operate such properties as it intends. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. The costs and amount of time necessary to secure possession and control of a certain properties may exceed our assumptions, which would delay Front Yard's receipt of revenue from, and return on, the property.. A majority of the SFR properties Front Yard has acquired have had an existing tenant at the time of acquisition. However, certain SFR and non-rental REO properties require Front Yard to secure possession. In certain circumstances, Front Yard may have to evict occupants who are in unlawful possession before it can secure possession and control of the property. The holdover occupants may be the former owners or tenants of a property, or they may be squatters or others who are illegally in possession. Securing control and possession from these occupants can be both costly and time-consuming. If these costs and delays exceed our expectations, Front Yard's and our financial performance may suffer because of the increased expenses incurred or the unexpected delays in turning the properties into revenue-producing rental properties.. Eminent domain could lead to material losses on Front Yard's investments.. It is possible that governmental authorities may exercise eminent domain to acquire land on which Front Yard's properties are built in order to build roads or other infrastructure. Any such exercise of eminent domain would allow Front Yard to recover only the fair value of the affected properties, which we believe may be interpreted to be substantially less than the actual value of the property. Several cities are also exploring proposals to use eminent domain to acquire residential loans to assist borrowers to remain in their homes, potentially reducing the supply of single-family properties for sale in Front Yard's markets. Any of these events can cause a material loss to Front Yard, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. Front Yard likely will incur costs due to litigation, including but not limited to, class actions, tenant rights claims and consumer demands.. There are numerous tenants' rights and consumer rights organizations throughout the country. As Front Yard grows in scale, it may attract attention from some of these organizations and become a target of legal demands or litigation. Many such consumer organizations have become more active and better funded in connection with mortgage foreclosure-related issues and displaced home ownership. Some of these organizations may shift their litigation, lobbying, fundraising and grass roots organizing activities to focus on landlord-tenant issues as more entities engage in the SFR property market. Additional actions that may be targeted at Front Yard include eviction proceedings and other landlord-tenant disputes, challenges to title and ownership rights (including actions brought by prior owners alleging wrongful foreclosure by their lender or servicer) and issues with local housing officials arising from the condition or maintenance of an SFR property. While we intend to conduct Front Yard's rental business lawfully and in compliance with applicable landlord-tenant and consumer laws, such organizations might work in conjunction with trial and pro bono lawyers in one state or multiple states to attempt to bring claims against Front Yard on a class action basis for damages or injunctive relief. We cannot anticipate what form such legal actions might take or what remedies they may seek. Any of such claims may result in a finding of liability that may materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Additionally, these organizations may lobby local county and municipal attorneys or state attorneys general to pursue enforcement or litigation against Front Yard or may lobby state and local legislatures to pass new laws and regulations to constrain Front Yard's business operations. If they are successful in any such endeavors, they could directly limit and constrain Front Yard's business operations and impose on Front Yard significant litigation expenses, including settlements to avoid continued litigation or judgments for damages or injunctions. Any of the above-described occurrences may materially and adversely affect Front Yard, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. 27. (table of contents). Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise Front Yard's and/or our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of Front Yard's and our business, we, through ASPS, MSR or Front Yard's mortgage servicers, may acquire and store sensitive data on our network, such as our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of Front Yard's prospective and current tenants. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be subject to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard and/or us.. Front Yard may incur substantial costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.. Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and ordinances, Front Yard may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at its single-family residential properties (including in some cases, asbestos-containing construction materials, lead-based paints, contaminants migrating from off-site sources and natural substances such as methane, mold and radon gas) and may be held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any insurance coverage Front Yard may have for such events, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. The presence of such substances or the failure to properly remediate the contamination may adversely affect Front Yard's ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination, which may also adversely affect Front Yard's ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Front Yard properties will be subject to property and other taxes that may increase over time.. Front Yard will be responsible for property taxes for its single-family residential properties when acquired, which may increase as tax rates change and properties are reassessed by taxing authorities. If Front Yard fails to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authorities may place a lien on the property and the property may be subject to a tax sale. Increases in property taxes would also adversely affect Front Yard's yield from rental properties. Any such occurrence may materially and adversely affect Front Yard which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect us.. If Front Yard is deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it would have significant adverse consequences to Front Yard and us.. Front Yard does not intend or expect to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\"), since it will not engage primarily or hold itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, Front Yard will be primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring real estate and mortgages on real estate, specifically SFR assets. To the extent that the SEC determines that Front Yard is in fact an investment company, Front Yard intends to rely on the exception from the Investment Company Act set forth in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which excludes from the definition of investment company \"any person who is not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in one or more of the following businesses: . . .(C) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.\" The SEC generally requires that for the exception provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) to be available, at least 55% of an entity's be comprised of mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, also known as \"qualifying interests,\" and at least another 25% of the entity's assets must be comprised of additional qualifying interests or real estate-type interests (with no more than 20% of the entity's assets comprised of miscellaneous assets). Any significant acquisition by Front Yard of non-real estate assets without the acquisition of substantial real estate assets could cause Front Yard to meet the definitions of an \"investment company.\" If Front Yard is deemed to be an investment company, Front Yard may be required to register as an investment company if it is unable to dispose of the disqualifying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on Front Yard.. 28. (table of contents). Registration under the Investment Company Act would require Front Yard to comply with a variety of substantive requirements that impose, among other things:. • limitations on capital structure;. • restrictions on specified investments;. • restrictions on leverage or senior securities;. • restrictions on unsecured borrowings;. • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and. • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase Front Yard's operating expenses.. If Front Yard were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, it would be prohibited from engaging in its business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against it.. Registration with the SEC as an investment company would be costly, would subject Front Yard to a host of complex regulations and would divert attention from the conduct of Front Yard's business. In addition, if Front Yard purchases or sells any real estate assets to avoid becoming an investment company under the Investment Company Act, it could materially adversely affect its net asset value, the amount of funds available for investment and its ability to pay distributions to its stockholders. Any such occurrences would adversely impact our income from the management fees paid by Front Yard.. Risks Related to Front Yard's Qualification as a REIT. Front Yard's failure to qualify as a REIT would materially and adversely affect Front Yard and us.. Front Yard made an election to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with the year ended December 31, 2013. However, we cannot assure you that Front Yard will remain qualified as a REIT. Moreover, Front Yard's qualification and taxation as a REIT will depend upon its ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual operating results, certain qualification tests set forth in the federal income tax laws. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that Front Yard's actual results of operations for any particular taxable year will satisfy such requirements. If Front Yard fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to its stockholders because:. • Front Yard would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing its taxable income, thus becoming subject to federal income tax;. • Front Yard could be subject to increased state and local taxes; and. • Unless Front Yard is entitled to relief under certain federal income tax laws, it could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which it failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if Front Yard fails to qualify as a REIT, it will no longer be required to make distributions.. As a result of all these factors, Front Yard's failure to qualify as a REIT could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and it could materially and adversely affect Front Yard and the market price of its common stock. If these risks are realized by Front Yard, our ability to generate management fees could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Front Yard's tax position with respect to the accrual of interest and market discount income with respect to distressed mortgage loans involves risk.. Front Yard has not accrued interest income or market discount on defaulted or delinquent loans when certain criteria are satisfied. The criteria generally relate to whether those amounts are uncollectible or of doubtful collectability. If the Internal Revenue Service were to challenge this position successfully, Front Yard could be subject to entity level excise tax as a result of \"deficiency dividends\" that it may be required to pay to its stockholders at the time of such an adjustment to its income in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. 29. (table of contents). Compliance with REIT requirements may cause Front Yard to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay its ability to meet its investment objectives and reduce your overall return.. To qualify as a REIT, Front Yard is required at all times to satisfy certain tests relating to, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of its assets, its financing, hedging and investment strategies, the ownership of its stock and amounts it distributes to its stockholders. Compliance with the REIT requirements may preclude Front Yard from certain financing or hedging strategies or cause it to forego otherwise attractive opportunities which may hinder or delay its ability to meet its investment objectives and reduce your overall return. For example, Front Yard may be required to pay distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when it does not have funds readily available for distribution.. Compliance with REIT requirements may force Front Yard to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could materially adversely affect Front Yard.. To qualify as a REIT, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of Front Yard's assets must consist of qualified real estate assets, cash, cash items and government securities. In addition, no more than 20% of the value of Front Yard's assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. Except for securities that qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test above and investments in Front Yard's qualified REIT subsidiaries and its taxable REIT subsidiaries, its investment in the value of any one issuer's securities may not exceed 5% of the value of its total assets, and it may not own more than 10% of the total vote or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer, except, in the case of the 10% value test, certain \"straight debt\" securities. In order to satisfy these requirements, Front Yard may be forced to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, potentially at a loss, which could materially and adversely affect Front Yard. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. Failure to make required distributions would subject Front Yard to federal corporate income tax.. We intend to continue to operate Front Yard in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, Front Yard generally is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to its stockholders. To the extent that Front Yard satisfies this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of its REIT taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, Front Yard will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it pays out to its stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.. The IRS may deem the gains from sales of Front Yard's properties to be subject to a 100% prohibited transaction tax.. From time to time, Front Yard may be forced to sell properties that do not meet its investment objectives or it may need to sell properties, mortgage loans or other assets either because they do not meet its rental portfolio objectives or to satisfy its REIT distribution requirements. In general, REITs do not sell residential assets out of the REIT so they are not determined to be a \"dealer.\" If Front Yard were to purchase real estate assets with a view toward re-selling them, it could be considered a \"dealer\" of real estate, which could cause Front Yard to fail to meet its REIT requirements or such sales could be considered \"prohibited transactions.\" Because Front Yard has historically purchased large portfolios of mortgage loans with a view toward converting them into rental homes, there may be assets that it purchases as part of all-or none portfolios that are not acceptable for its portfolio and necessary to sell. Typically, Front Yard contributes REO properties that it determines will not meet its rental portfolio criteria to its taxable REIT subsidiary to prevent the sales from being deemed prohibited transactions. The IRS may deem one or more sales of Front Yard's properties to be \"prohibited transactions.\" If the IRS takes the position that Front Yard has engaged in a \"prohibited transaction\" (i.e., if Front Yard sells a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), then any gain it recognizes from such sale would not disqualify Front Yard as a REIT, but such gains would be subject to a 100% tax. The Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax; however, there is no assurance that Front Yard will be able to qualify for the safe harbor. Front Yard does not intend to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business; however, there is no assurance that its position will not be challenged by the IRS especially if it makes frequent sales or sales of property in which it has short holding periods. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. In the future, Front Yard could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund its distributions or to make a portion of its distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution.. Front Yard's Board of Directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to its stockholders, and the amount of such distributions may be limited. In the future, Front Yard could be required to sell assets,. 30. (table of contents). borrow funds or raise equity capital to fund its distributions or to make a portion of its distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution. Front Yard's Board of Directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon various factors, including its historical and projected financial condition and requirements, liquidity and results of operations, financing covenants, maintenance of its REIT qualification, applicable law and other factors, as its Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. To the extent that Front Yard is required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, it could be materially and adversely affected. To the extent Front Yard may have to raise equity capital, it may be unable to do so at attractive prices, on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely affect its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees.. Even if Front Yard qualifies as a REIT, it may be subject to tax liabilities that could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. Even if Front Yard qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, Front Yard could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise tax or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more of the relief provisions under the Code to maintain its qualification as a REIT. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of \"dealer property,\" Front Yard may also move or hold some of its assets or conduct activities through a TRS. In addition, if Front Yard lends money to a TRS, the TRS may be unable to deduct all or a portion of the interest paid to Front Yard, which could result in an even higher corporate level tax liability. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to Front Yard's stockholders.. Furthermore, the Code imposes a 100% tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. We will structure Front Yard's transaction with any TRS on terms that we believe are arm's length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurances, however, that Front Yard will be able to avoid application of the 100% tax. Any such additional tax liabilities would have an adverse effect on Front Yard and us.. Ordinary dividends payable by REITs are generally taxed at U.S. federal income tax rates, higher than tax rates applicable to dividends from Subchapter C corporations.. Effective for tax years beginning in 2018, the maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for \"qualifying dividends\" payable by Subchapter C U.S. corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 23.8%, including the 3.8% Medicare tax. Beginning in 2018, subject to a number of limitations, individuals receiving ordinary dividends payable by REITs will be eligible for up to a 20% deduction. For those individuals qualifying for the full 20% deduction, the maximum tax rate on such dividends will be 33.4%, including the 3.8% Medicare tax.. Front Yard may be subject to legislative or regulatory tax changes that could materially and adversely affect Front Yard.. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective, and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. Front Yard and its stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by any such change in or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate management fees."
