[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations.  If any of the following risks, or other events related to such risks, or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  Furthermore, the risk factors described below may not describe the full nature or scope of such risks.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The economy and the housing market can affect demand for our services.. The performance and growth of certain of our businesses are dependent on the volume of residential loan originations and single family residential real estate transactions in the United States.  In the event of an economic slowdown, increase in interest rates or any other factor that would lead to a decrease in the volume of residential real estate transactions, our origination services, residential real estate brokerage and real estate investor solutions businesses, including our buy-renovate-lease-sell program, could be adversely affected.  A strengthening economy and housing market may result in lower delinquencies, negatively impacting our default related businesses.  Further, in the event that adverse economic conditions or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the aggregate number of United States mortgage loans outstanding, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business is subject to substantial competition.. The markets for our services are very competitive.  Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer.  We compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers.  Some of our competitors are more established, better known and have substantial resources, and some have widely-used technology platforms which they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other competing products and services.  Some of. 10. Table of Contents. our competitors may have additional competitive advantages over us.  In addition, we expect the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors, and that our competitors will develop new products, services and technologies.  These new products, services and technologies may render our existing offerings obsolete and our competitors' offerings may gain market acceptance over our offerings.  Furthermore, we may not be able to meet the terms of our customers' service level agreements or otherwise meet our customers' expectations.  There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ocwen is currently our largest customer and the loss of Ocwen as a customer or a significant reduction in the size of Ocwen could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Ocwen was our largest customer, accounting for 58% of our total revenue.  Additionally, 16% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was earned on the portfolios serviced by Ocwen, when a party other than Ocwen or the MSR owner selected Altisource as the service provider.. Ocwen has disclosed that it is subject to a number of ongoing federal and state regulatory examinations, cease and desist orders, consent orders, inquiries, subpoenas, civil investigative demand, requests for information and other actions and is subject to pending legal proceedings, some of which include claims against Ocwen for substantial monetary damages.  While not inclusive, regulatory actions to date have included subjecting Ocwen to independent oversight of its operations and placing certain restrictions on its ability to acquire servicing rights.  Ocwen may become subject to future federal and state regulatory investigations, inquiries, requests for information and legal proceedings, any of which could also result in adverse regulatory or other actions against Ocwen.. The foregoing may have significant adverse effects on Ocwen's business and/or our continuing relationship with Ocwen.  For example, Ocwen may be required to alter the way it conducts business, including the parties it contracts with for services (including IT and software services), it may be required to seek changes to its existing pricing structure with us, it may lose its non-GSE servicing rights or subservicing arrangements or may lose one or more of its state servicing or origination licenses.  Additional regulatory actions or adverse financial developments may impose additional restrictions on or require changes in Ocwen's business that could require it to sell assets or change its business operations.  Any or all of these effects could result in our eventual loss of Ocwen as a customer or a reduction in the number and/or volume of services they purchase from us or the loss of other customers.. If any of the following events occurred, Altisource's revenue could be significantly lower and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected, including from the possible impairment or write-off of goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, other assets and accounts receivable:. • Altisource loses Ocwen as a customer or there is a significant reduction in the volume of services they purchase from us. • Ocwen loses, sells or transfers a significant portion or all of its remaining non-GSE servicing rights or subservicing arrangements and Altisource fails to be retained as a service provider. • Ocwen loses state servicing licenses in states with a significant number of loans in Ocwen's servicing portfolio. • Altisource fails to be retained as a service provider. • The contractual relationship between Ocwen and Altisource changes significantly or there are significant changes to our pricing to Ocwen for services from which we generate material revenue. Additionally, Ocwen has notified us, disclosed in its filings and stated in connection with resolving several state administrative actions discussed above, that it plans to transition from REALServicing to another mortgage servicing software platform.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate our systems and technologies with Ocwen's new mortgage servicing platform or inter-operate with Ocwen's new mortgage servicing platform without adversely impacting our business and results of operations.. There may be other events that could cause the loss of Ocwen as a customer or reduce the size of our relationship with Ocwen, or that could otherwise adversely affect the revenues we earn from Ocwen, and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We entered into the Brokerage Agreement (as amended) with NRZ's licensed brokerage subsidiary with respect to the Subject MSRs.  If the Brokerage Agreement (as amended) is terminated, our business and results of operations could be affected.. As of June 30, 2017, we estimate that NRZ owned certain economic rights in, but not legal title to, approximately 78% of the Subject MSRs.  In July 2017, Ocwen and NRZ entered into agreements to convert NRZ's economic rights to the Subject MSRs into fully-owned MSRs in exchange for payments from NRZ to Ocwen when such MSRs were transferred.  The transfers are subject to certain third party consents.  Ocwen disclosed that under these agreements, Ocwen would subservice the transferred Subject MSRs for an initial term of five years, and the agreements provided for the conversion of the existing arrangements into a more traditional subservicing arrangement.. 11. Table of Contents. In January 2018, Ocwen disclosed that it and NRZ entered into new agreements to accelerate the implementation of certain parts of their July 2017 arrangement in order to achieve the intent of the July 2017 agreements sooner while Ocwen continues the process of obtaining the third party consents necessary to transfer the Subject MSRs to NRZ.. On August 28, 2017, we entered into the Brokerage Agreement (as amended) with NRZ's licensed brokerage subsidiary to provide real estate brokerage services for the Subject MSRs and with respect to approximately $6 billion of non-Ocwen serviced non-GSE portfolios.  The Brokerage Agreement (as amended) is effective through August 31, 2025 but may be terminated early by us if we are not able to enter into a Services Agreement with NRZ during the term of the Services LOI, or by NRZ upon the occurrence of certain specified events, some of which are not subject to a cure period.  Termination events include, but are not limited to, a breach of the terms of the Brokerage Agreement (as amended)  (including, without limitation, the failure to meet performance standards and non-compliance with law), the failure to maintain licenses which failure materially prevents performance of the contract, regulatory allegations of non-compliance, voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, appointment of a receiver, disclosure in a Form 10-K or Form 10-Q that there is significant uncertainty about Altisource's ability to continue as a going concern, failure to maintain a specified level of cash and an unapproved change of control.  If any one of these termination events occurs and the Brokerage Agreement (as amended) is terminated, this could have a material adverse impact on our future revenue and results of operations.. We are negotiating a Services Agreement with NRZ to provide certain-fee based services for the Subject MSRs.  If we are not able to reach an agreement with respect to the terms of the Services Agreement, our business and results of operations could be affected.. We executed the Services LOI with NRZ to enter into a Services Agreement, setting forth the terms pursuant to which Altisource S.à r.l. would be the exclusive service provider of certain fee-based services with respect to the Subject MSRs through August 2025.  If we are not able to reach an agreement with respect to the terms of the Services Agreement, and our role as a service provider with respect to the Subject MSRs is replaced or reduced, our revenue could be lower and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our continuing relationship with Ocwen may inhibit our ability to attract and retain other customers.. Given the significance of our relationship with Ocwen and the regulatory scrutiny of Ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in attracting new customers and retaining existing customers.  Should these and other potential customers view Altisource as part of Ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon Ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services and our non-Ocwen growth could be inhibited as a result and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. We have key customer relationships, other than Ocwen and NRZ, the loss of which could affect our business and results of operations.. While no individual client, other than Ocwen and NRZ, represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration.  Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all.  The loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them or challenges to our right to use them could reduce the value of our services or increase our costs.. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets.  The efforts we have taken to protect these proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective in every case and in some cases we may not seek protection or to defend our rights.  The unauthorized use of our intellectual property or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, make it more expensive to do business or hurt our ability to compete.  Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time-consuming.. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for certain of our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect all of the innovations for which we seek protection.  Changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, can also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations.  In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important.  Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable.. 12. Table of Contents. Further, as our technology solutions and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims by others.  Any claims, whether with or without merit, could:. • be expensive and time-consuming to defend;. • cause us to cease making, licensing or using technology solutions that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • require us to redesign our technology solutions, if feasible;. • divert management's attention and resources; and/or. • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our results of operations.. Technology failures, defects or inadequacies, development delays or installation difficulties, acts of vandalism or the introduction of harmful code could damage our business operations and increase our costs.. Disruptions, failures, defects or inadequacies in our technology or software we acquire from third parties, delays in the development of, or installation difficulties with, our technology, or acts of vandalism, system attacks or the introduction of malicious code to our technology or software, may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers.  Any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our and our customers' results of operations and, in the case of acts of vandalism or introduction of harmful code, could necessitate improvements to our physical and cyber security practices that may require an investment of money, time and resources.  Further, our customers may require changes and improvements to the systems we provide to them to manage the volume and complexity, laws or regulations of their businesses, which changes and improvements may be unfeasible, unsuccessful, costly or time-consuming to implement or may create disruptions in our provision of services to customers, which may have an adverse impact on our business operations or financial condition, or increase our costs.  Additionally, the improper implementation or use of Altisource technology by customers could impact the operation of that technology, and potentially cause harm to our reputation, loss of customers, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims or government investigations or actions, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. We depend on our ability to access data from external sources to maintain and grow our businesses.  If we are unable to access data from these sources or if the prices charged for these services significantly increase, the quality, pricing and availability of our products and services may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on data from public and private sources to maintain and grow some of our businesses (such as Owners.com, Investability® and RentRange®) and to maintain our databases (such as multiple listing service, or MLS data).  Our data sources could cease providing or reduce the availability, type, details or other aspects of their data to us or increase the price we pay for their data.  If a number of suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data, or if our sources of data become unavailable or too expensive, we may need to find alternative sources.  If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and efficiently and effectively integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services.  New legal restrictions could limit the use or dissemination of data.  Significant price increases or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, in particular if we are unable to arrange for substitute sources of data on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The Company's databases containing our proprietary information, the proprietary information of third parties and personal information of our customers, vendors and employees could be breached, which could subject us to adverse publicity, investigations, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and expenses.. As part of our business and operation of our technology, we maintain proprietary information belonging to the Company or third parties in tangible and electronic forms and electronically receive, process, store and transmit personal information (including, but not limited to personally identifiable information) (\"PI\") and confidential and sensitive business information of ourselves and of our customers, vendors and employees.  We also rely extensively on the operation of technology networks and systems that are administered by third parties, including the Internet and cloud based solutions.  We rely on the security of our facilities, networks, databases, systems and processes and, in certain circumstances, those of third parties, such as vendors, to protect our proprietary information and PI in our possession and information about our customers, vendors and employees.  Hackers, criminals and others are constantly devising schemes to circumvent security safeguards and other large companies have suffered serious data security breaches.  If our controls and those of our vendors are not effective, outdated or do not exist, unauthorized parties may gain access to our networks or databases, or those of our vendors, and they may be able to steal, publish, delete, or modify our sensitive proprietary information and sensitive third party information, including PI.  In addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data or security breaches that result in unauthorized release of such PI, proprietary or confidential information.  In such circumstances, our business could suffer and we could be held liable to our customers, vendors, other parties or employees,. 13. Table of Contents. as well as be subject to notification requirements or regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy laws or failing to adequately protect such information.  This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties, large scale remediation requirements, operational changes or other response measures, significant penalties, fines, settlements, costs, consent orders, loss of consumer confidence in our security measures and negative publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  Furthermore, customer and governmental authorities increasingly impose more stringent security obligations on us, our services and the security of our customers' data and PI, and impose new liabilities for data breaches, all of which could have an adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. Our business is susceptible to disruption from natural disasters or intentional acts of destruction that may render certain of our assets and business facilities unusable for an extended period of time.. Our physical facilities and technology infrastructure, including infrastructure provided by third parties, could be susceptible to disruption due to natural disasters or intentional acts of destruction that could impair or prevent our use of such facilities and infrastructure for an extended period of time.  Current business continuity plans, back-up facilities and technology infrastructure may not be adequate or sufficient to remotely operate for an extended period of time, and current business interruption insurance may not be adequate to sufficiently compensate for any loss, in the event of a natural disaster or intentional act of destruction.  Furthermore, certain of our assets, including our short-term investments in real estate, are concentrated in geographical areas that may be affected by natural disasters, which may result in limited access to those assets, significant damage to such assets or destruction of such assets.  Interruptions in our operations for an extended period of time and/or damage or destruction of assets and facilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have long development and sales cycles for many of our services, analytics and technology solutions and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We have long development and sales cycles for many of our services, analytics and technology solutions.  We may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular customer that does not generate revenue or pursuing a particular service or solution for our existing customers that does not generate revenue.  We may encounter delays when developing new services or technology solutions.  Changes in relevant regulations or industry practices may render existing solutions or ongoing development efforts obsolete or require significant modifications.  We may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers.  Further, defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, loss of customers, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle or costs incurred that do not result in sales could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The failure of any of the insurance underwriting loss limitation methods we use could have adverse effects on our results.. Altisource, through its subsidiary Association of Certified Mortgage Originators Risk Retention Group, Inc., provides certified loan insurance to its customers.  Altisource reduces a portion of its risk of insurance loss through third party reinsurance.  The incidence and severity of claims against insurance policies are inherently unpredictable.  Although we attempt to manage our exposure to insurance underwriting risk through the use of disciplined underwriting controls and the purchase of third party reinsurance, the frequency and severity of claims could be greater than contemplated in our pricing and risk management methods and our controls and mitigation efforts may not be effective or sufficient.. We also face counterparty risk when purchasing reinsurance from third party reinsurers.  The insolvency or unwillingness of any of our present or future reinsurers to make timely payments to us under the terms of our reinsurance agreements could have an adverse effect on us.  Further, there is no certainty that we will be able to purchase the amount or type of reinsurance we desire in the future or that the reinsurance we desire will be available on terms we consider acceptable or with reinsurers with whom we want to do business.  Any failure of our insurance underwriting loss limitation methods or similar insurance related risks described above could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business and the business of our customers are subject to extensive scrutiny and regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations or license requirements may adversely impact us.. Our business and the business of our customers are subject to extensive scrutiny and regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the FTC, the CFPB, the SEC, the HUD and the state and local agencies that license or oversee certain of our auction, real estate brokerage, mortgage and debt collection services, trustee services and insurance services.  We also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, ADA, CHBR, CAN-. 14. Table of Contents. SPAM, ECOA, FACTA, FCRA, FDCPA, Fair Housing Act, the FTC Act, GLBA, HARP, HMDA, HOEPA, RPAPL, RESPA, the SAFE Act, SCRA, TCPA, TILA, UDAAP and FCPA.  We are also subject, or may in the future become subject, to various foreign laws and regulations as well, including those pertaining to data protection, such as the GDPR.  These foreign, federal, state and local requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended.  Furthermore, the interpretation or enforcement by regulatory authorities of these requirements may change over time.  The creation of new regulatory authorities or changes in the regulatory authorities overseeing applicable laws and regulations may also result in changing interpretation or enforcement of such laws or regulations.  We are also subject to licensing and regulation as a provider of certain services including, among others, services as a mortgage origination underwriter, valuation provider, appraisal management company, asset manager, property manager, title insurance agent, insurance broker and underwriter, real estate broker, auctioneer, foreclosure trustee and debt collector in a number of states.  Our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs.  We incur significant ongoing costs to comply with licensing requirements and governmental regulations and to respond to government and regulatory confidential inquiries, audits, regulatory examinations and other similar matters.  We also may lose or fail to maintain required licenses necessary to continue to do business in certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Participants in the industries in which we operate are subject to a high level of government and regulatory scrutiny.  This scrutiny has included review by federal and state governmental authorities of all aspects of the mortgage servicing and lending industries and the debt collection industry, including an increased legislative and regulatory focus on consumer protection practices.  Our and our customers' failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, consent orders or settlements could subject us to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensure, damage to our reputation in the industry, significant penalties, fines, settlements, adverse publicity, litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions, costs and consent orders against us or our customers that may curtail or restrict our business as it is currently conducted.  If governmental authorities continue to impose new or more restrictive requirements or enhanced oversight, we may be required to increase or decrease our prices and/or we may incur significant additional costs to comply with such requirements.  Also, if we are unable to adapt our products and services to conform to the new laws and regulations, or if these laws and regulations have a negative impact on our clients, we may experience client losses or increased operating costs.  Any of the foregoing outcomes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Furthermore, even if we believe we complied with such laws and regulations, we may choose to settle enforcement actions or lawsuits in order to avoid the potentially significant costs of defending such actions or lawsuits and to further avoid the risk of increased damages if we ultimately were to receive an unfavorable outcome.. In addition, certain of our technology and other services are provided at the direction and pursuant to the identified requirements of our customers.  The failure of our customers to properly identify or account for regulatory requirements applicable to such services could expose us to significant penalties, fines, settlements, costs and consent orders that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Periodically, we are subject to audits and examinations by federal, state and local governmental authorities and receive subpoenas, civil investigative demands or other requests for information from such governmental authorities in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority.  We are currently responding to such inquiries from governmental authorities relating to certain aspects of our business, including as set forth in the Government Regulation section of Item 1 of Part I, \"Business\" above.  Responding to such audits, examinations and inquiries will cause us to incur costs, including legal fees or other charges, which may be material in amount, and in addition, may result in management distraction or may cause us to modify or terminate certain services we currently offer.  If any such audits, examinations or inquiries result in allegations or findings of non-compliance, we could incur significant penalties, fines, settlements, costs and consent orders that may curtail, restrict or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Furthermore, even if we believe we complied with applicable laws and regulations, we may choose to settle such allegations with the governmental authorities in order to avoid the potentially significant costs of defending such allegations and to further avoid the risk of increased damages if we ultimately were to receive an unfavorable outcome, but such settlements may also result in further claims.. National servicing standards and federal and state government scrutiny and regulation and other requirements require very specific loan modification and foreclosure procedures among others that have further reduced the number of loans entering the foreclosure process and have negatively impacted our default services revenue and profit.  It is unclear when or if volumes will increase in the future.. Our customers are subject to government regulation, requiring our customers to, among other things, oversee their vendors and maintain documentation that demonstrates their oversight.  If our performance does not meet such requirements, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our customers are subject to a variety of federal, state and local government regulations, including the Bank Service Company Act and those promulgated by the CFPB and others, as well as consent orders and settlements, including the National Mortgage. 15. Table of Contents. Settlement.  The foregoing may require our customers to oversee their vendors and document the procedures performed to demonstrate that oversight.  Altisource, as a vendor, is subject to oversight by our customers.  If we do not meet the standards established by or imposed upon our customers or if any other oversight procedures result in a negative outcome for Altisource, we may lose customers, may no longer be granted referrals for certain services, or may have to conform our business to address these standards, negatively impacting our business and results of operations.  Even if Altisource satisfies its contractual obligations to its clients, regulators may allege that products or services provided by Altisource fail to meet applicable regulatory requirements.. The tax regulations, and the interpretation thereof, in the countries, states and local jurisdictions in which we operate periodically change, which may impact our results of operations associated with higher taxes.. Certain of our subsidiaries provide services in the United States and several countries internationally.  Those jurisdictions are subject to changing tax environments, which may result in higher operating expenses and/or taxes and which may introduce uncertainty as to the application of tax laws and regulations to our operations.  We may not be able to raise our prices to customers or pass-through such taxes to our customers or vendors, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, if we fail to accurately anticipate or apply tax laws and regulations to our operations, we could be subject to liabilities and penalties.. We rely on third party vendors for many aspects of our business.  If our vendor oversight activities are ineffective, we fail to meet customer or regulatory requirements or we face difficulties managing our relationships with third party vendors, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely on third party vendors to provide goods and services in relation to many aspects of our operations.  Our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to the unavailability of such third parties, the pricing and services offered by such third parties and such third parties' failure to perform adequately under our agreements with them.  In addition, where a vendor provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a client, we are generally responsible for such performance and could be held accountable by the client for any failure of performance by our vendors.  We evaluate the competency and solvency of our key third party vendors.  We perform ongoing vendor oversight activities to identify potential new vendors, review vendor pricing and to identify any performance or other issues related to current vendors.  If our vendor oversight activities are ineffective or if a vendor fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to serve our customers and/or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk for ineffective vendor oversight.  Furthermore, the failure to obtain services at anticipated pricing could impact our cost structure and the prices of services we provide.  In addition, Altisource may be required by its customers or by applicable regulations to oversee its vendors and document procedures performed to demonstrate that oversight.  If we fail to meet such customer or regulatory requirements, or we face difficulties managing our relationships with third party vendors, we may lose customers or may no longer be granted referrals for certain services or could be subject to adverse regulatory action, negatively impacting our business and results of operations.  Such failures could adversely affect the reliability and quality of the services we provide our customers and could adversely affect our results of operations.. If financial institutions at which we hold cash and cash equivalents as well as escrow and trust funds fail, it could have an adverse impact on our Company.. We hold our cash and cash equivalents at various financial institutions.  In addition, we hold customers' assets in escrow and trust accounts at various financial institutions pending completion of certain real estate activities.  We also hold cash in trust accounts at various financial institutions where contractual obligations mandate maintaining dedicated bank accounts.  These amounts are held in escrow and trust accounts for limited periods of time and are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  We may become liable for funds owed to third parties as a result of the failure of one or more of these financial institutions, in addition to loss of our cash and cash equivalents, and there is no guarantee we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage, private insurance or otherwise and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. We generate significant cash from our operations that is deposited into our operating accounts at banks and also, in connection with debt collections (in our Other Businesses, Corporate and Eliminations segment) and real estate transactions (Mortgage Market and Real Estate Market segments), in escrow and trust accounts, which exposes us to risk of loss due to fraudulent or inadvertent misappropriation of cash.. We hold our cash and cash equivalents at various financial institutions.  In addition, we hold customers' assets in escrow and trust accounts at various financial institutions pending completion of certain real estate activities.  These cash balances expose us to purposeful misappropriation of cash by employees or others and unintentional mistakes resulting in a loss of cash which may not be recoverable.  In addition, we may become liable for funds owed to third parties as a result of such purposeful misappropriation of cash by employees or others and unintentional mistakes resulting in a loss of cash held in escrow and trust accounts, and there. 16. Table of Contents. is no guarantee we would recover the lost funds from the party or parties involved in a fraudulent or inadvertent misappropriation of cash and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flows from operations.  We seek to deploy cash generated in a disciplined manner, including to repurchase and repay our senior secured term loan and, from time to time, repurchase shares of our common stock.  We may not continue to deploy cash as we have in the past.. While we have historically used cash from operations to repurchase and repay our senior secured term loan and repurchase shares of our common stock, there is no guarantee that we will continue to do so or that we will do so at attractive prices.  Furthermore, there is no guarantee that cash from operations will be available for repurchasing our senior secured term loan and repurchasing shares of our common stock.  Also, we may not repurchase our senior secured term loan and common stock at the same levels as in the past.  In addition, while the Company has not historically declared dividends, the Company may decide in the future to declare a dividend rather than, or in addition to, repurchasing our senior secured term loan and/or repurchasing shares of our common stock.  If we continue such repurchases or declare a dividend, we may not have sufficient cash for other opportunities that may arise.. We may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs, damages or indemnifications, or modify our products or processes.. From time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming regulatory or legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct.  These proceedings may involve regulators, clients, our clients' customers, vendors, competitors and/or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages or indemnification obligations.  Additionally, we may be forced to settle some claims and change existing company practices, services and processes that are currently revenue generating.  This could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.  Furthermore, even if we believe we have no liability for the alleged regulatory or legal violations or wrongful conduct, we may choose to settle such regulatory or legal proceedings in order to avoid the potentially significant costs of defending such allegations and to further avoid the risk of increased damages if we ultimately were to receive an unfavorable outcome.. Our senior secured term loan makes us more sensitive to the effects of economic change; our level of debt and provisions in our senior secured term loan agreement could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.. Our senior secured term loan makes us more vulnerable to changes in our results of operations because a portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt and is not available for other purposes.  Our senior secured term loan is secured by virtually all of our assets and from time to time trades at a substantial discount to face value.  Our ability to raise additional debt is largely limited and in many circumstances would be subject to lender approval and would require modification of our current senior secured term loan agreement.  Additionally, increases in interest rates will negatively impact our cash flows as the interest rate on our debt is variable.  The provisions of our senior secured term loan agreement could have other negative consequences to us including the following:. • limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations, our business or the industry in which we compete;. • requiring us to use a portion of our excess cash flow, as defined in the debt agreement, to repay debt in the event our debt to EBITDA ratios, as defined in the debt agreement, exceed certain thresholds; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to invest in our business.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future.  If we do not generate sufficient cash flows and do not have sufficient cash on hand to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing, raise equity or sell assets.  This may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  Without any such financing or equity issuance, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances.  If necessary, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations.  Failure to meet our debt service requirements could result in an event of default under our senior secured term loan agreement which, if not cured or waived, could result in the holders of the defaulted debt causing all outstanding amounts with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable.. In addition, our senior secured term loan agreement contains covenants that limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business and our industry, including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness, making investments, granting liens and merging or consolidating with other companies.  Complying with these covenants may impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities.. 17. Table of Contents. Our failure to comply with the covenants or terms contained in our senior secured term loan agreement, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. Our senior secured term loan agreement requires us to comply with various operational, reporting and other covenants or terms including, among other things, limiting us from engaging in certain types of transactions.  If there were an event of default under our senior secured term loan agreement that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable.  There can be no assurance that our assets or cash flows would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding senior secured term loan, either upon maturity or if accelerated, upon an event of default or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the senior secured term loan.. Our failure to maintain certain debt to EBITDA ratios contained in our senior secured term loan agreement could result in required payments to the lenders of a percentage of our excess cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to use our excess cash flows for other purposes.. Our senior secured term loan agreement requires us to distribute to our lenders 50% of our consolidated excess cash flows, as defined in the senior secured term loan agreement, if our net debt to EBITDA ratio, as defined in the senior secured term loan agreement, exceeds 3.50 to 1.00 and 25% of our consolidated excess cash flows if our net debt to EBITDA ratio is 3.50 to 1.00 or less, but greater than 3.00 to 1.00.  If we were required to distribute a portion of our excess cash flows to our lenders, we may be limited in our ability to support our business, grow our business through acquisitions or investments in technology and we may be limited in our ability to repurchase our common stock.  There can be no assurance that we will maintain debt to EBITDA ratios at levels that will not require us to distribute a portion of our excess cash flows to lenders.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to prepare accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect investor confidence in our reported financial information.. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement.  We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting and financial processes.  The existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could materially adversely affect our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements.. We have significant investments in goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of prior acquisitions and an impairment of these assets would require a write-down that would reduce our net income.. Goodwill and intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually or sooner if circumstances indicate a possible impairment.  Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization and negative industry or economic trends, among other indications of impairment.  In the event that the recorded values of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment.  In the event of significant volatility in the capital markets or a worsening of current economic conditions, we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would negatively impact our results of operations.  Possible future impairment of goodwill and intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to our Growth Strategy. Our ability to grow is affected by our ability to execute on our strategic businesses, retain and expand our existing customer relationships and our ability to attract new customers.. Our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships and attract new customers is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not:. • execute on our strategic businesses;. • maintain or improve the quality and compliance of services we provide to our customers;. • meet or exceed the expectations of our customers;. • successfully leverage our existing customer relationships to sell additional services; and. • attract new customers.. If our efforts to execute on our strategic businesses, retain and expand our customer relationships and attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to maintain and grow our operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Our ability to expand existing relationships and attract new customers is also affected by broader economic factors and the strength of the overall housing market, which can reduce demand for our services and increase competition for each customer's business, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.  See \"The economy and the housing market can affect demand for our services.\". If we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, changing requirements of governmental authorities, GSEs and clients or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology and particularly our efforts to complete development of our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological change, our customers' and competitors' frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards and government regulation.  We are currently in the process of, and from time to time will be, developing and introducing new technologies and improvements to existing technologies.  Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to complete our current efforts and in the future enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our services and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers.  These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance effectiveness.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new and improved technologies and services.  In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services.  Our services and their enhancements may also not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or governmental authorities and achieve market acceptance.  Finally, certain prices that we can charge may be dictated by GSEs and/or our large clients and we may not be able to reduce our vendor costs in order to maintain our profitability for those services.  Any of these results could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to maintain and grow our operations.. Our ability to meet our growth objectives is dependent on the timing and market acceptance of our new service offerings.. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in service development or the inability to gain market acceptance of new services to existing and new customers.  There are no guarantees that new services will prove to be commercially successful and our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Some of our businesses are dependent on outsourcing.. Our continued growth at historical rates for some of our businesses is dependent on industry participants accepting of outsourcing.  Organizations may elect to perform such services themselves or may be prevented from outsourcing services.  A significant change in our customers' preference or ability to outsource could have an adverse effect on our continued growth and our results of operations.. Acquisitions to accelerate growth initiatives involve potential risks.. Our strategy has included the acquisition of complementary businesses from time to time.  During 2016, we acquired Granite Loan Management of Delaware, LLC (\"Granite\").  During 2015, we acquired CastleLine Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (\"CastleLine\") and GoldenGator, LLC (doing business as RentRange) (\"RentRange\"), REIsmart, LLC (doing business as Investability) (\"Investability\") and Onit Solutions, LLC, a support company for RentRange and Investability (collectively \"RentRange and Investability\").  During 2014, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Mortgage Builder Software, Inc. (\"Mortgage Builder\") and acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Owners Advantage, LLC (\"Owners\").. In the future, we may consider acquisitions of other businesses that could complement our business, offer us greater access in our current markets or offer us greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related to ours but we do not currently serve.  Our ability to pursue additional acquisitions in the future is dependent on our access to sufficient capital (equity and/or debt) to fund the acquisition and subsequent integration.  We may not be able to secure adequate capital as needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, and our ability to secure such capital through debt financing is limited by our senior secured term loan agreement.. When we acquire new businesses, we may face a number of integration risks, including a loss of focus on our daily operations, the need for additional management, constraints on operating resources, constraints on financial resources from integration and system conversion costs and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees.  In addition, any acquisition may result in the incurrence of additional amortization expense of related intangible assets, which could reduce our profitability.  Our failure to effectively pursue or integrate acquisitions, and such acquisitions themselves, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Risks Related to International Business. Our international operations subject us to additional risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have attempted to control our operating expenses by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as India, the Philippines and Uruguay.  As of December 31, 2017, 5,930 of our employees were based in India, the Philippines and Uruguay.  These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters.  The occurrence of natural disasters or political or economic instability in these countries could interfere with work performed by these labor sources, or could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources.  Such disruptions could decrease efficiency, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States.  Governmental authorities could seek to impose financial costs or restrictions on foreign companies providing services to customers in the United States.  Governmental authorities may attempt to prohibit or otherwise discourage our United States-based customers from sourcing services from foreign companies and, as a result, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the United States or cease doing business with Altisource.  In addition, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the United States for other reasons.  To the extent that we are required to use labor based in the United States, we may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced United States-based labor to our customers, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations prohibit certain types of payments by our employees, vendors and agents.  Any violation of the applicable anti-corruption laws or regulations by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could expose us to significant penalties, fines, settlements, costs and consent orders that may curtail or restrict our business as it is currently conducted and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations.. Altisource is a Luxembourg company and it may be difficult to obtain and enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers.. Altisource is a public limited liability company organized under the laws of, and headquartered in, Luxembourg.  As a result, Luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders.  The rights of shareholders under Luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions.  A significant portion of the assets of Altisource are owned outside of the United States.  It may be difficult for investors to obtain and enforce, in the United States, judgments obtained in United States courts against Altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or to enforce, in Luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the United States.. A significant challenge of the Luxembourg tax regime or of its interpretation by the Luxembourg tax authorities or others could adversely affect our results of operations.. The Company received and historically operated under a tax ruling from the Luxembourg tax authorities, which would have expired in 2019 unless extended or renewed.  In connection with an internal reorganization by the Company during 2017, the Company no longer operates under the tax ruling.  The European Commission (\"EC\") has initiated investigations into several EU member states, including Luxembourg, to determine whether these EU member states have provided tax advantages to companies on a basis not allowed by the EU.  While the EC's investigations continue, it has concluded that certain companies in certain EU member states, including Luxembourg, have been provided such tax advantages.  The EC is requiring these EU member states to recover from certain companies the prior year tax benefits they received.  Such a development could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the United States amended its tax code which resulted in the reduction of the United States corporate tax rate.  This tax code amendment will likely change our consolidated effective income tax rate, including compared to our competitors, and could adversely affect our results of operations.. This significant change in the United States tax code that resulted in the reduction of the United States corporate tax rate could reduce the effective tax rate of some of our competitors.  A reduction in the effective tax rate of some of our competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Such disadvantage and potential loss of customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Our consolidated effective income tax rate for financial reporting purposes may change periodically due to the creation and our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, changes in enacted tax rates and fluctuations in the mix of income earned from our domestic and international operations, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Employees. Our success depends on our directors, executive officers and other key personnel.. Our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our directors, executive officers and other key employees, many of whom have significant experience in the real estate and mortgage, financial services and technology industries.  In particular, we are dependent on the services of our Board of Directors and key executives at our corporate headquarters and personnel at each of our segments.  The loss of the services of any of these directors, executives or key personnel, for any reason, could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to attract, motivate and retain skilled employees may adversely impact our business.. Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, engage, train and retain skilled employees.  Additionally, demand for qualified technical and software professionals conversant in certain technologies may exceed supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology.  Our ability to recruit and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective.  Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining skilled employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Relationships. We could have conflicts of interest with Ocwen, Front Yard Residential Corporation (formerly Altisource Residential Corporation) (\"RESI\"), Altisource Asset Management Corporation (\"AAMC\") and certain members of our management, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us.. We have significant business relationships with and provide services to Ocwen and RESI.  We also provide certain services to AAMC.  Our largest shareholder, William C. Erbey, owns or controls common stock in each of Altisource, Ocwen, RESI and AAMC, RESI's external manager.  As of December 31, 2017, based on public filings, Mr. Erbey reported beneficially owning or controlling approximately 34% of the common stock of Altisource, approximately 15% of the common stock of Ocwen, less than 5% of the common stock of RESI and approximately 46% of the common stock of AAMC.  In addition, based on public filings through February 16, 2018, Mr. Erbey reported beneficially owning or controlling approximately 34% of the common stock of Altisource, approximately 8% of the common stock of Ocwen, less than 5% of the common stock of RESI and approximately 46% of the common stock of AAMC.  Certain members of our management and independent members of our Board of Directors have equity interests in Ocwen, RESI and/or AAMC.  Such ownership interests could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Ocwen, RESI and AAMC, as the case may be.. We believe we have practices designed to manage potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with Ocwen, RESI and AAMC, where necessary, including a management review process of the terms of material transactions with these companies and review and approval of such transactions by our Audit Committee, which is comprised of independent directors.  There can be no assurance that we will always be able to implement such measures or that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to manage or resolve all potential conflicts with these companies, and, even if we do, that the resolution will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that has none of the connections we have with these companies."
