[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. References in the risk factors to \"Ambac\" are to Ambac Financial Group, Inc. References to \"we,\" \"our,\" \"us\" and \"Company\" are to Ambac and its subsidiaries, as the context requires. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this section shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in Part I, Item 1 in this Form 10-K or in Note 1. Background and Business Description or Note 14. Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K unless otherwise indicated.. Certain of the risk factors described below refer to Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes, which were issued in February 2018 in connection with the transactions described in Note 1. Background and Business Description and Note 17. Subsequent Events to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K.  Our risk factors are organized in the following sections.. Risks Related to Ambac Common Shares   10 Risks Related to Insured Portfolio Losses   12 Risks Related to Indebtedness   15 Risks Related to Capital, Liquidity and Markets   20 Risks Related to the Company's Business   22 Risks Related to International Business   23 Risks Related to Taxation   25 Changes in Political or Economic Conditions   25 Risks Related to Strategic Plan   26. Risks Related to Ambac Common Shares. Investments in Ambac's common stock are highly speculative and the price per share of Ambac's common stock may be subject to a high degree of volatility, including significant price declines.. Ambac's common stock, which was issued pursuant to its Reorganization Plan, began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market on May 1, 2013. Although Ambac's common stock is listed on NASDAQ, there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of the trading market or the price at which such shares can be sold.  The price of the shares may decline substantially in response to a number of events or circumstances, including but not limited to:. • adverse developments in our financial condition or results of operations;. • changes in the actual or perceived risk within our insured portfolio, particularly with regards to concentrations of credit risk, such as to Puerto Rico;. • changes to regulatory status;. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   10   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. • changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock;. • market trends unrelated to our stock;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our business strategy; and. • results and actions of other participants in our industry.. In addition, the price of Ambac's shares may be affected by the additional risks described below, including risks associated with Ambac Assurance's ability to deliver value to Ambac.  Investments in Ambac's common stock should be considered highly speculative and may be subject to a high degree of volatility.. Ambac may not be able to realize value from Ambac Assurance or generate earnings apart from Ambac Assurance.. The value of Ambac's stock is dependent upon the residual value of its main operating subsidiary, Ambac Assurance; the receipt of payments to be made by Ambac Assurance pursuant to the Amended TSA and the intercompany Cost Allocation Agreement; the receipt of payments on the Owner Trust Certificate issued to Ambac by Corolla Trust (the \"Owner Trust Certificate\"); the receipt of payments on investments made on securities issued or insured by Ambac Assurance; the receipt of dividends from Ambac Assurance; and the receipt of payments on other investments. There can be no assurance that Ambac will be able to realize residual value in Ambac Assurance, which is in run-off.  It is unclear whether Ambac Assurance will be able to satisfy all of its obligations to policyholders, holders of its surplus notes (including junior surplus notes) and holders of its preferred stock, even if Ambac Assurance is successful in achieving recoveries and mitigating losses. Our ability to achieve recoveries and mitigate losses is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including as a result of varying potential perceptions of the value of Ambac Assurance's guarantees and securities.. Due to the above considerations, as well as applicable legal and contractual restrictions described elsewhere herein, it is highly unlikely that Ambac Assurance will be able to pay Ambac any dividends for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the payments to be made to Ambac under the Amended TSA and the intercompany Cost Allocation Agreement are subject to contingencies that are difficult to predict, making the amount and timing, if any, of such payments uncertain. Payments to be made under the Amended TSA, in particular, depend on the generation of future taxable income by Ambac Assurance above certain thresholds. Ambac Assurance's ability to generate taxable income above such thresholds is uncertain. Due to these factors, there can be no assurance as to the amounts that Ambac will receive from Ambac Assurance under the Amended TSA.  Moreover, the Cost Allocation Agreement provides that Ambac Assurance's reimbursement of Ambac's operating expenses after 2017 is subject to the approval of OCI and limited to $4.0 million per annum.  We can provide no assurance as to whether OCI will approve such reimbursement or any portion thereof.. It is also uncertain whether and to what extent Ambac will realize value from the Owner Trust Certificate. The Owner Trust Certificate is subordinated to $299.2 million of senior secured notes issued by Corolla Trust.  Such notes and the Owner Trust Certificate are collateralized by and payable solely from a $350.0. million face amount junior surplus note plus interest thereon. Ambac Assurance became the obligor under the junior surplus notes on February 12, 2018 pursuant to the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation. No payment of interest on or principal of a junior surplus note may be made until all existing and future indebtedness of Ambac Assurance, including senior ranking surplus notes, policy claims and claims having statutory priority, have been paid in full. All payments of principal and interest on junior surplus notes are subject to the prior approval of OCI. If OCI does not approve the payment of interest on junior surplus notes, such interest will accrue and compound annually until paid. Payments on the senior secured notes issued by Corolla Trust will only be made when and to the extent that Ambac Assurance makes payments on the junior surplus note held by Corolla Trust. The senior secured notes must be paid in full before any payments will be made on the Owner Trust Certificate. If Corolla Trust has failed to pay all interest and principal outstanding on the senior secured notes within three business days of August 28, 2039, the senior secured noteholders may also take possession of and sell the junior surplus note.   If such a sale were to occur, it is uncertain whether and to what extent there would be any value for the Owner Trust Certificate after satisfaction of the senior secured notes.. The value of Ambac's common stock may also depend upon the ability of Ambac to generate earnings apart from Ambac Assurance. As noted below, Ambac is selectively exploring potential business opportunities that, among other things, may permit utilization of Ambac's net operating loss carry-forwards, but there are no assurances regarding its ability to find or execute such business opportunities or the prospects of any such opportunities.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities that rank senior or pari-passu to Ambac's common stock may adversely affect the market price of its common stock.. If Ambac decides to issue debt or additional equity securities in the future that rank senior or pari-passu to its common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting Ambac's operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities issued in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of common stock and may result in dilution to owners of common stock. Because Ambac's decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions, it cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of future offerings. Holders of common stock bear the risk of future offerings reducing the market price of Ambac's common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in the Company.. The issuance of new common stock may dilute current shareholder value or have adverse effects on the market price of Ambac's common stock.. If Ambac raises capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock, whether for select business transactions, general corporate purposes, or in exchange for other securities, the value of  current shareholders' interests may be diluted as Ambac is not required to offer any such shares to existing stockholders on a preemptive basis.. Ambac cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of its common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   11   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for its common stock.. The occurrence of certain events could result in the initiation of rehabilitation proceedings against Ambac Assurance, with resulting adverse consequences to holders of our securities.. Increased loss development in the insured portfolio of Ambac Assurance or significant losses or other events resulting from litigation against Ambac Assurance may prompt OCI to determine that it is in the best interests of policyholders to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to Ambac Assurance, either preemptively or in response to any such event.. A group of entities allowed to participate in the confirmation hearings for the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation for the Segregated Account has indicated that it would appeal the order approving the Second Amended Plan.  We can provide no assurance that an appeal of the approval order will not be successful and result in the approval order being overturned or modified, or necessitate changes to the Second Amended Plan.  Ambac, Ambac Assurance and their respective security holders would face substantial uncertainty and risk if the appeal is successful.  Among other possibilities, Ambac Assurance may lose control rights in transactions, which would expose the Company to significantly increased risks and potential losses.. Even if the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation and/or the related approval order of the Rehabilitation Court is not modified or overturned, there can be no assurance that any level of capital deemed sufficient by OCI to permit the conclusion of the Segregated Account rehabilitation will be sufficient to cover all future losses, whether currently anticipated or unanticipated.. If, as a result of the occurrence of any such event(s), OCI decides to initiate rehabilitation proceedings with respect to Ambac Assurance, adverse consequences may result, including, without limitation and absent enforceable protective injunctive relief, the assertion of damages by counterparties (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in ISDA format), the acceleration of losses based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions. Any such consequences may reduce the residual value of Ambac Assurance. Additionally, the rehabilitator would assume control of all of Ambac Assurance's assets and management of Ambac Assurance. In exercising control, the rehabilitator would act for the benefit of policyholders, and would not take into account the interests of our securityholders. Such actions may result in material adverse consequences for our securityholders.. Risks Related to Insured Portfolio Losses. Loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and comprehensive income.. Loss reserves are established when management has observed credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered adversely classified. Loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance policies are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default, management's ability to execute policy commutations, and estimated remediation recoveries for,. among other things, breaches by RMBS issuers of representations and warranties. The objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to, and our loss reserves do not, reflect the worst possible outcome. While our reserving scenarios reflect a wide range of possible outcomes (on a probability weighted basis) reflecting the significant uncertainty regarding future developments and outcomes, our loss reserves may change materially based on future developments. As a result of inherent uncertainties in the estimates and judgments made to determine loss reserves, there can be no assurance that either the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed such reserves or that our reserves will not increase or decrease materially over time as circumstances, our assumptions, or our models change.. Additionally, inherent in our estimates of loss severities and remediation recoveries is the assumption that Ambac Assurance will retain control rights in respect of our insured portfolio. However, according to the terms of relevant transaction documents, Ambac Assurance may lose control rights in many insured transactions if, among other things, Ambac Assurance is the subject of delinquency proceedings and/or other regulatory actions which could result from its deteriorated financial position. If Ambac Assurance loses control rights, its ability to mitigate loss severities and realize remediation recoveries will be compromised, and actual ultimate losses in its insured portfolio could exceed current loss reserves.  The Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation of the Segregated Account and related orders of the Rehabilitation Court seek to restrain actions adverse to Ambac Assurance based on a loss of control rights due to the rehabilitation of the Segregated Account or related events or circumstances. If the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation and such orders do not successfully preclude such actions, Ambac Assurance could lose its control rights with respect to certain policies.. Some issuers of public finance obligations insured by Ambac Assurance are experiencing fiscal stress that could result in increased losses on those obligations or increased liquidity claims, including losses or claims resulting from payment defaults, Chapter 9 bankruptcy or other restructuring proceedings or loss of market access.. Some issuers of public finance obligations insured by Ambac Assurance have reported or may report budget shortfalls, significantly underfunded pensions or other fiscal stresses that imperil their ability to pay debt service or will require them to significantly raise taxes and/or cut spending in order to satisfy their obligations. Government entities may also take other actions that may impact their own creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of related issuers. Some issuers of obligations insured by Ambac Assurance have declared a payment moratorium, defaulted or filed for bankruptcy or similar debt adjustment proceedings, raising concerns about their ultimate ability to service the debt insured by Ambac Assurance and Ambac Assurance's ability to recover claims paid in the future. If the issuers of the obligations in the public finance portfolio are unable to raise taxes, cut spending, or receive federal or state assistance, or if such issuers default or file for bankruptcy under Chapter 9 or for similar relief under other laws that allow for the adjustment of debts, Ambac Assurance may experience liquidity claims and/or ultimate losses on those obligations, which could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   12   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. Ambac Assurance insures obligations of Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, including its authorities and public corporations, that are either subject to a Title III bankruptcy protection proceeding under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Stability Act (\"PROMESA\") or have otherwise suspended debt service payments. Ambac Assurance may be required to make significant amounts of policy payments over the next several years, the recoverability of which is subject to great uncertainty, which may lead to material permanent losses.   While we believe our reserves are adequate to cover losses in the Puerto Rico insured portfolio, there can be no assurance that Ambac Assurance may not incur additional losses in the future, particularly given the developing economic, political and legal circumstances in Puerto Rico. Such losses may have a material adverse effect on Ambac Assurance's results of operation and financial condition.. Ambac Assurance has exposure to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the \"Commonwealth\"), including its authorities and public corporations. Each has its own credit risk profile attributable to discrete revenue sources, direct general obligation pledges and general obligation guarantees. Overall, Ambac Assurance  has approximately $2.0 billion of net par exposure to the Commonwealth and these instrumentalities. Components of the overall Puerto Rico net par outstanding include capital appreciation bonds that are reported at the par amount at the time of issuance of the related insurance policy as opposed to the current accreted value of the bond.  The outstanding net insured amount including accretion on capital appreciation bonds is approximately $2.7 billion.  Total net insured lifetime debt service (net par and interest) to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities was approximately $9.5 billion at December 31, 2017.. As a result of the developments described in these Risk Factors and elsewhere in this 10-K (see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Guarantees in Force), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and certain of its instrumentalities will continue to default on debt service payments, including payments owed on bonds insured by Ambac Assurance. Ambac Assurance may be required to make significant amounts of policy payments over the next several years, the recoverability of which is subject to great uncertainty, which may lead to material permanent losses. Our exposure to Puerto Rico is impacted by the amount of monies available for debt service, which is in turn affected by variability in economic growth, tax revenues, essential services expense as well as federal funding of Commonwealth needs. In addition, our exposure to Puerto Rico is impacted by the significant damage to the Commonwealth that was inflicted by Hurricane Maria, which made landfall on September 20, 2017,  as well as Hurricane Irma, which passed just north of the island on September 6, 2017. The longer term recovery of the economy of the Commonwealth and its essential infrastructure will likely be highly dependent on the amount, timing and effectiveness of Federal aid.  There is historical precedent for meaningful Federal support following other natural disasters in the United States and its territories and, to date, some Federal aid measures have been approved and have already started to assist in the recovery. However, there can be no assurances as to the sufficiency or ultimate level of the aid and as to the effectiveness of the deployment of the aid in benefiting the long term recovery of economic activity in Puerto Rico.. Substantial uncertainty also exists with respect to the ultimate outcome for creditors in Puerto Rico due to legislation enacted by the Commonwealth and the United States, including PROMESA, as well as actions taken in reliance on such laws, including Title III filings.  Ambac Assurance is involved in multiple litigations relating to such actions and other issues and may not be successful in pursuing claims or protecting its interests.  Ambac Assurance is also participating in a mediation process with respect to potential debt restructurings.  Mediation may not be productive or may not resolve Ambac Assurance's claims in a manner that avoids significant losses.. Given the numerous uncertainties existing with respect to the restructuring process and relevant litigations, no assurance can be given that ultimate debt service discounts will not be severe and cause Ambac to experience losses materially exceeding current reserves. It is possible that certain restructuring process solutions, together with associated legislation, budgetary, and/or public policy proposals could be adopted and could significantly or further impair our exposures. In addition, there are  possible final legal determinations, including failing to recognize or properly differentiate legal structures and protections applicable to such exposures, that could result in losses exceeding our current reserves by a material amount and our loss reserves would need to be increased. In particular, in a Title III process, should court-approved plans of adjustment for the Commonwealth, COFINA, Puerto Rico Highways and Transportation Authority (\"PRHTA\"), or any other issuers of Ambac-insured debt that file for Title III protection contemplate discounts to debt service implied by, or even worse than, the Commonwealth's Revised Fiscal and Economic Growth Plan (\"Revised FEGP\"), the Fiscal Plan Compliance Act be upheld, or Ambac receive unfavorable judgments in the litigations to which it is a party, Ambac's financial condition could be materially adversely affected. It is also possible that economic or demographic outcomes may be as, or worse than, forecast under the Commonwealth's Revised FEGP or under proposals or plans promulgated by the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities in or in connection with a Title III process or otherwise. Even a negotiated restructuring to which Ambac agrees as part of a Title VI, mediation or other process may involve material losses in excess of current reserves. While our reserving scenarios reflect a wide range of possible outcomes reflecting the significant uncertainty regarding future developments and outcomes, given our exposure to Puerto Rico and the economic, fiscal, legal and political uncertainties associated therewith as well as the uncertainties emanating from the damage caused by hurricanes Maria and Irma, our loss reserves may ultimately prove to be insufficient to cover our losses, potentially by a material amount, and may be subject to material volatility.. Implementation of the H.R. 1 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) may negatively impact the economic recovery of Puerto Rico, which could result in higher loss severities or an extended moratorium on debt service owed on Ambac Assurance-insured bonds of Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act effectively treats Puerto Rico the same as it does any other foreign tax jurisdiction and otherwise makes it less attractive for U.S. taxpayers to move certain operations abroad by, among other things, imposing U.S. federal income tax on a current basis with respect to certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations.  This may diminish the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico's relative attractiveness as a location for foreign. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   13   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. activity of a U.S. multinational group, including those with manufacturing facilities or other business on the island. The legislation comes at a difficult time as the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico recovers from hurricanes Maria and Irma and a multi-year financial crisis. Consequently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could have an adverse impact on the ongoing recovery of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico by impeding much-needed economic growth, job growth, and revenue generation, which could potentially result in higher loss severities and/or an extended debt service moratorium for Puerto Rico creditors, including the Company.. Implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could have a negative impact on issuers of Ambac Assurance-insured municipal bonds.. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act individuals who itemize their deductions on their Federal income tax returns will be limited to $10,000 of deductions for state and local taxes paid in a given year. In states with high income tax rates, such as New York, Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland, and California, there is a risk that municipal bond issuers could be impacted by lower tax revenues if there is significant out migration by residents to states or municipalities with lower tax rates. Lower tax revenues in these jurisdictions could lead to reduced financial flexibility, lower overall economic activity and increased credit risk and thereby potentially increasing risk to Ambac Assurance with respect to affected issuers with bonds insured by Ambac Assurance.. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reduces the maximum corporate federal income tax rate to 21% from 35%, which could reduce the demand for municipal bond investments by corporations, such as life insurance companies, banks, and credit unions, which currently hold approximately 30% of all outstanding municipal bonds.  The impact of reduced demand could result in higher borrowing costs for municipalities and/or reduced refinancing flexibility for issuers of municipal bonds, thereby potentially increasing risk to Ambac Assurance with respect to issuers with municipal bonds insured by Ambac Assurance.. We are subject to credit risk and other risks in our insured portfolio, including related to RMBS and securities backed by student loans. We are also subject to risks associated with adverse selection as our insured portfolio runs off. Measures taken to reduce such risks may have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results or financial position.. Performance of our insured transactions, including (but not limited to) RMBS transactions and those involving securities backed by student loans, can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as recession, rising unemployment rates, underemployment, home prices that decline or do not increase in the patterns assumed in our models, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit, mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations, borrower and/or originator fraud, mortgage and student loan servicer performance or underperformance and financial difficulty, such as risks related to whether the servicer may be required to delay the remittance of any cash collections held by it or received by it after the time it becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings.. While further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets and student loans, may occur,. the timing, extent and duration of any future deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as is the impact on potential claim payments and ultimate losses on the securities within our portfolio. In addition, there can be no assurance that any governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful or inure to the benefit of the transactions we insure. For example, any initiative which permits the discharge of student loan debt in bankruptcy may adversely affect our portfolio. Similarly, servicer settlements with governmental authorities regarding foreclosure or servicing irregularities are generally designed to protect borrowers and may increase losses on securities we insure. In particular, the student loan industry and, specifically, trusts with securities insured by Ambac Assurance have been subject to heightened Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) scrutiny and enforcement action over servicing and collections practices and potential chain of title issues and, consequently, any settlements, orders, consents or penalties resulting from CFPB actions, or any failure on the part of servicers or other parties asserting claims against delinquent borrowers to establish title to the loans, could lead to increased losses on securities we insure.. In addition, there can be no assurance that Ambac Assurance would be successful, or that it would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the RMBS that Ambac Assurance insures.. As the runoff of the insured portfolio continues, the proportion of exposures we rate as below investment grade relative to the aggregate insured portfolio is likely to continue to increase, leaving the portfolio increasingly concentrated in higher risk exposures.  This risk may result in greater volatility or have adverse effects on the Company's results from operations and on our financial condition.. One of our primary goals is to create shareholder value through transaction terminations, policy commutations, settlements and restructurings that we believe will improve our risk profile.  As we take such actions to reduce known and potential risks, such actions may negatively impact our operating results or financial position in one or more reporting periods.. Our credit risk management policies and practices may not adequately identify significant risks.. As described in Part I, Item 1, \"Risk Management\" in this Form 10-K, we have established risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. Ongoing surveillance of credit risks in our insured portfolio is an important component of our risk management process. These policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. There can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. If we are not able to identify significant risks, we may not be able to timely remediate such risks, thereby increasing the amount of losses to which we are exposed. An inability to identify significant risks could also result in the failure to establish loss reserves that are sufficient in relation to such risks.. We use analytical models to assist our projection of performance of our insured obligations and our investment portfolio but actual. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   14   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. results could differ materially from the model outputs and related analyses.. We rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models, including default models related to RMBS and waterfall modeling provided by a nationally recognized vendor for RMBS and student loan exposures, to project performance of our insured obligations and similar securities in our investment portfolio. These models assume various conditions, probability scenarios, facts and circumstances, and there can be no assurance that such models accurately predict or measure the quantum of losses, loss reserves and timing of losses. Differences in the models that  we employ, and/or uncertainties and/or flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these financial models and those determined by management, could lead to material changes in projected outcomes, and could include increased losses, loss reserves and/or other than temporary investment impairments. Moreover, modeled estimates of transaction performance depend in part on the interpretation of contracts and other bases of  our legal rights. Such interpretations may prove to be incorrect or different interpretations may be employed by bond trustees and other transaction participants and, ultimately courts, which could lead to increased losses, loss reserves and/or investment impairments.. Potential outcome of litigation relating to certain military housing credit exposures could adversely affect Ambac.. Ambac Assurance is a party to a number of litigations relating to military housing securitization credits, where opposing parties contend that, among other things, Ambac Assurance has lost its control rights due to the existence of an \"Ambac Default\" caused by, among other things, the recently concluded Segregated Account rehabilitation.  If Ambac Assurance is found to have lost control rights in these transactions, our ability to mitigate losses could be significantly compromised, and actual ultimate losses in these military housing transactions could exceed our current loss reserves. Moreover, an adverse outcome relating to the assertion of an \"Ambac Default\" could prompt other counterparties to make similar assertions, which would increase the risk of losing control rights in other transactions.. Risks Related to Indebtedness. The Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes are secured primarily by potential recoveries on Ambac Assurance's RMBS litigations and Ambac Assurance's ability to obtain, and the timing of, any recovery on the RMBS litigations is subject to significant uncertainty.. The Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes are primarily secured by Ambac Assurance's potential recoveries in respect of RMBS litigations. The RMBS litigations arise from Ambac Assurance's claims of fraud and/or contractual breaches of representations and warranties with respect to certain residential mortgage-backed securities (\"RMBS\") transactions insured by Ambac Assurance.  These claims are based on, among other things, representations with respect to the characteristics of the securitized loans, the absence of borrower fraud in the underlying loan pools or other misconduct in the origination process, the compliance of loans with the prevailing underwriting policies, and compliance of the RMBS transaction counterparties with policies and procedures related to loan origination and securitization. In such cases, where contract claims are being pursued, the sponsor of the transaction is contractually obligated to repurchase, cure or substitute collateral. for any loan that breaches the representations and warranties. However, generally the sponsors have not honored those obligations and have vigorously defended claims brought against them.. The outcome of any litigation, including the RMBS litigations, is inherently unpredictable, including because of risks intrinsic in the adversarial nature of litigation. Subsequent court motions, appeals and rulings, some of which could relate to the transactions effectuated in connection with the conclusion of the Segregated Account rehabilitation, and the issuance of the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes, could delay or otherwise impact any recovery by Ambac Assurance.  Moreover, rulings that may be adverse to Ambac Assurance (in any given RMBS litigation, as well as in related matters) could affect Ambac Assurance's ability to pursue its claims or alter settlement dynamics with RMBS litigation counterparties. There can be no assurance that Ambac Assurance will be successful in prosecuting its claims in the RMBS litigations.. Any litigation award or settlement amount is subject to counterparty credit risk, successor liability and other similar risks of recovery, including that the sponsor is unable to honor its contractual obligations or pay a judgment that Ambac Assurance may obtain in litigation. Some sponsors against which Ambac Assurance has claims have been acquired since the securitized loans were originated and their successors may decline to honor the sponsor's obligations. Ambac Assurance may not be successful in enforcing its claims against any successor entity. There can be no assurance that Ambac Assurance will not have difficulties recovering any damages it may be owed or that it will recover all amounts to which it believes it is entitled or that any actual recoveries will not differ materially from the estimated representation and warranty recoveries the Company has accounted for in its financial statements.. In addition, while a policy issued by Ambac Assurance guarantees all principal and interest payments (including mandatory prepayments) in respect of the Secured Notes as and when such payments become due and owing, such policy may not provide adequate assurance that payments of principal and interest in respect of the Secured Notes will be available in the event that Ambac Assurance's financial condition, including its capital and liquidity, is materially adversely affected, including as a result of the failure to recover expected damages and, as a result, Ambac Assurance is unable to satisfy its policy obligations. In the event that Ambac Assurance is unable to satisfy its obligations under the Secured Notes policy, holders of the Secured Notes will have the right to foreclose on the securities constituting collateral for the Secured Notes and to sue Ambac Assurance for failure to make payments under the Secured Notes policy; however, there can be no assurance that the sale of the securities collateral will produce proceeds in an amount sufficient to pay any or all amounts due on the Secured Notes or that holders will be successful in any litigation seeking payments pursuant to the Secured Notes policy. Furthermore, holders of Secured Notes will not obtain any control, consultation or direction rights in respect of the RMBS litigations nor will holders be able to sell the Ambac Note or the right to receive proceeds in respect of the RMBS litigations without the prior consent of Ambac Assurance.. Holders of Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes will have no authority to make decisions in respect of the RMBS litigations, will need to rely on Ambac Assurance to pursue the RMBS litigations and. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   15   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. may only receive limited information concerning the RMBS litigations.. All decisions concerning the conduct of the RMBS litigations, including as to strategy, settlement, pursuit and abandonment, will be made by Ambac Assurance, in consultation with its legal counsel. Holders of the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes will have no control over any decisions related to the RMBS litigations and will need to rely on Ambac Assurance to prosecute the underlying claims. If holders do not agree with decisions by Ambac Assurance with respect to the RMBS litigations, there is no recourse or ability to object to such decision. Additionally, Ambac Assurance's ability to disclose potentially material details of the RMBS litigations on a regular basis may be limited by litigation strategy and the inherent nature and rules of judicial proceedings, including, among other things, proceedings and filings that are sealed by the court, matters involving attorney-client privilege and proceedings that are conducted on a confidential basis by agreement of the parties. The RMBS litigations could also be adversely affected if Ambac Assurance does not have sufficient resources to actively prosecute its claims or becomes subject to rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation or dissolution, or otherwise impaired by actions of OCI.. While Ambac Assurance may pursue negotiated settlements of the RMBS litigations, the settlement discussions may not materialize, may ultimately fail, may cause delays or may result in settlements for less than the amount needed to pay the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes.. Ambac Assurance may elect to engage in settlement negotiations with the defendants of the RMBS litigations and may decide to settle any or all of the RMBS litigations.  The aggregate amount of settlements may be for an amount less than the amount necessary to pay the Secured Notes or less than the amount necessary to pay the Tier 2 Notes, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations and make it more difficult for Ambac Assurance to repay the Ambac Note (and therefore make it more difficult for the issuer of the Secured Notes to repay the Secured Notes) and/or the Tier 2 Notes, on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, while Ambac Assurance may pursue settlement negotiations, there can be no assurance that any settlement negotiations will materialize or that any settlement agreement can be reached on terms acceptable to Ambac Assurance, or at all. If settlement discussions prior to trial fail with respect to a particular case, Ambac Assurance could incur greater expenses preparing for, and prosecuting, a trial in such case, and Ambac Assurance's recovery would be subject to the additional risks inherent in any trial, which could adversely impact the value of the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes.. Ambac Assurance may receive non-cash proceeds in respect of the RMBS litigations and may need to liquidate such proceeds for less than fair market value in order to make cash payments on the Ambac Note and/or the Tier 2 Notes.. In connection with a settlement agreement or judgment, Ambac Assurance may receive non-cash proceeds or indirect proceeds, which are cash or non-cash proceeds received by others for the benefit of Ambac Assurance. Ambac Assurance, however, will be required to make payments on the Ambac Note, for the benefit of the holders of Secured Notes, and on the Tier 2 Notes, in cash. In the event that Ambac Assurance receives non-cash proceeds, Ambac Assurance may need to liquidate the non-cash proceeds if. it does not have sufficient cash available to make a payment on the Ambac Note or the Tier 2 Notes on the applicable payment date. Market and economic conditions, governmental actions, the form of non-cash proceeds and other factors may cause substantial delays in the ability to liquidate any non-cash proceeds received. Ambac Assurance may not be able to liquidate any non-cash proceeds received for fair value or at all. If Ambac Assurance is unable to liquidate non-cash proceeds at their fair value, Ambac Assurance will still be required to make payments on the Ambac Note and Tier 2 Notes and any payment made that is greater than the amount received could have a material adverse effect on Ambac Assurance's financial condition, including its capital and liquidity. If indirect proceeds are received, Ambac Assurance will also be required to make payments on the Ambac Note, for the benefit of the holders of Secured Notes, and on the Tier 2 Notes, in cash to the extent of the fair value to Ambac Assurance of the indirect proceeds. Any payments of cash on the Ambac Note and/or the Tier 2 Notes as the result of receiving indirect proceeds may have a material adverse effect on Ambac Assurance's financial condition, including its capital and liquidity.. There may not be sufficient collateral to pay any or all of the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes.. In addition to Ambac Assurance's right to representation and warranty recoveries in respect of the RMBS litigations, which is inherently uncertain, the Ambac Note is also secured by securities having an estimated fair market value of approximately $350 million.  However, no appraisal of the value of the securities has been made and there can be no assurances that the fair market value of these securities will not decrease, including significantly.  The value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. Consequently, liquidating the securities collateral securing the Ambac Note may not produce proceeds in an amount sufficient to pay any or all amounts due on the Secured Notes.. The estimated fair market value of the securities collateral securing the Ambac Note is subject to fluctuations based on factors that include, among others, the financial condition of participants in the financial guaranty insurance industry, the market for and availability of financial guaranty insurance, the ability to sell the collateral in an orderly sale, general economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors.  The amount to be received upon a sale of the securities collateral would be dependent on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the actual fair market value of the collateral at such time and the timing and the manner of the sale, and the amount Ambac Assurance receives may not equal or exceed the expected fair market value.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the collateral can be sold in a short period of time or at all or at acceptable prices to Ambac Assurance.. In the event of rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation, dissolution or other insolvency proceeding, Ambac Assurance cannot assure holders that the proceeds from any sale or liquidation of the securities collateral will be sufficient to pay any or all of Ambac Assurance's obligations under the Ambac Note.. In addition, in the event of any such proceeding, it is possible that the rehabilitator, trustee, or competing creditors will assert that the value of the collateral with respect to the Ambac Note or the Tier 2 Notes, including Ambac Assurance's rights to recoveries in respect of the RMBS litigations, is less than the then-current. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   16   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. principal amount outstanding under the Ambac Note and the Secured Notes and/or the Tier 2 Notes on the date of the rehabilitation filing. Upon a finding by the court overseeing an Ambac Assurance rehabilitation that the Ambac Note and the Secured Notes and/or the Tier 2 Notes are under-collateralized, the claims in the rehabilitation proceeding with respect to the Ambac Note, the Secured Notes or the Tier 2 Notes may be bifurcated between a secured claim up to the value of the collateral and an unsecured claim for any deficiency. As a result, the claim of the holders of the Secured Notes or the Tier 2 Notes could be unsecured in whole or in part. The ability of the holders of the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes to realize upon any of the collateral securing the Ambac Note and the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes, as the case may be, may also be subject to bankruptcy and insolvency law limitations or similar limitations applicable in insurance company rehabilitation or liquidation proceedings.. Rights of holders of the Secured Notes in the RMBS litigations and securities collateral and rights of holders of the Tier 2 Notes in the RMBS litigations may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in such collateral, and insolvency considerations with respect to Ambac Assurance may have an adverse effect on the ability of holders of the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes to receive payments on the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes, respectively.. Applicable law provides that a security interest in certain tangible and intangible assets can only be properly perfected and its priority retained through certain actions undertaken by the secured party. There can be no assurance that the collateral agent in respect of the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes will have taken or will take all actions necessary to create properly perfected security interests in the proceeds from the RMBS litigations, which may result in the loss of the priority of the security interest in favor of the holders of the Secured Notes or the Tier 2 Notes, respectively, to which they would otherwise have been entitled.  In particular, in the event of a rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation, dissolution or other insolvency proceeding with respect to Ambac Assurance, if the proceeds from the RMBS litigations received by Ambac Assurance are determined not to be under the control of the Secured Notes Issuer, a receiver or a creditor of Ambac Assurance may take the position that the Secured Notes Issuer's security interest in such proceeds or a portion thereof is not perfected and therefore that such proceeds do not secure the Ambac Note. With respect to the Tier 2 Notes, in the event of a rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation, dissolution or other insolvency proceeding with respect to Ambac Assurance, if the proceeds from the RMBS litigations received by Ambac Assurance are determined not to be under the control of the collateral agent for the Tier 2 Notes, a receiver or a creditor of Ambac Assurance may take the position that such collateral agent's security interest in such proceeds or a portion thereof is not perfected and therefore that such proceeds do not secure the Tier 2 Notes. Moreover, if the proceeds from the RMBS litigations are received after the initiation of a rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation, dissolution or other insolvency proceeding with respect to Ambac Assurance, a receiver or a creditor of Ambac Assurance may take the position that such proceeds do not secure the Ambac Note or the Tier 2 Notes. If a court were to accept either of these positions, payments under the Ambac Note or Tier 2 Notes, as applicable, may be adversely affected and the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes, as the case may be, may become worthless.  In addition, a rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation, dissolution or other insolvency. proceeding with respect to Ambac Assurance or the Secured Notes Issuer, as applicable, could lead to delays in payments due on the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes.. Fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the Ambac Note, and if that occurs, holders may not receive any payments on the Secured Notes.. Fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the Ambac Note. Under state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the Ambac Note could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if Ambac Assurance (a) issued the Ambac Note with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors or (b) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for issuing the Ambac Note and, in the case of (b) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof:. • Ambac Assurance was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Ambac Note;. • the issuance of the Ambac Note left Ambac Assurance with an unreasonably small amount of capital or assets to carry on its business; or. • Ambac Assurance intended to, or believed that it would, incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature.. In addition, under Wisconsin insurance law, if the Ambac Note were issued within one year prior to the filing of a successful petition for rehabilitation or liquidation with respect to Ambac Assurance, the Ambac Note could be voided as a fraudulent transfer if Ambac Assurance issued the Ambac Note with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors or received less than fair consideration in return for issuing the Ambac Note.. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or a valid antecedent debt is satisfied.. Ambac Assurance cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not Ambac Assurance was insolvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, whether the Secured Notes would be subordinated to Ambac Assurance's other debt or policyholder claims. In general, however, a court would deem an entity insolvent if:. • the sum of its debts, including contingent and unliquidated liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets;. • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or. • it could not pay its debts as they became due.. If a court were to find that the issuance of the Ambac Note was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the Ambac Note or could subordinate the Ambac Note to presently existing and future indebtedness or policy obligations of Ambac Assurance, and, as a result, holders may not receive any payments on the Secured Notes.. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   17   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operational flexibility and our ability to obtain financing in the future.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.  Our substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations as well as the performance of our insured portfolio, which is driven to an extent by events outside our control, increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due, in respect of our indebtedness.  Our cash flow generation will depend on receipt of premiums, investment returns,  and potential litigation recoveries, offset by policyholder claims, commutation payments and operating expenses, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control and many of which are event-driven. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences.  For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of policyholder claims, debt service requirements, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms or at all;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and to fund the execution of our key strategies;. • limit or restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limit our ability or increase the costs to refinance indebtedness or repay such indebtedness due to ongoing interest accretion;. • limit our ability to attract and retain key employees; and. • limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions, as well as the volume of those transactions.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt.  While restrictive covenants in certain of our contracts currently provide limits on the amount of additional indebtedness Ambac Assurance may incur, we may obtain a waiver of those restrictions and incur additional indebtedness in the future.  In addition, if Ambac incurred indebtedness, its ability to make scheduled payments on, or refinance, any such indebtedness may depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or pay dividends, which in turn will depend on their future operating performance and contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of distributions or dividends to which they may be subject.  There can be no assurance that any such dividends or distributions would be made.  This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. If we cannot pay policyholder claims or service debt, the Company will have to take actions such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt or seeking additional capital.  Any of these remedies may not, if necessary, be effected on commercially. reasonable terms, or at all.  Because of these and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to pay the principal, interest or other amounts on our debt securities.. Ambac Assurance has ongoing obligations related to surplus notes.. Subject to approval by OCI, Ambac Assurance is required to make interest and principal (to the extent due) payments in cash on surplus notes on an annual basis. Ambac Assurance will be required to continue to make such payments, as and when approved by OCI, until all of the surplus notes mature, are repaid in full or are otherwise repurchased or retired.  Ambac Assurance is also obligated to make payments on junior surplus notes, subject to OCI approval, after the senior surplus notes have been paid in full. Ambac Assurance may not have the ability to borrow, raise or otherwise have access to the funds necessary to pay such amounts when due.. Surplus notes that were not exchanged and cancelled in the Exchange Offers may be acquired, redeemed or repaid on terms that may be viewed as more, or less, favorable than the terms of the consideration offered in the Exchange Offers.. The Company may acquire, redeem or repay surplus notes that are not exchanged and cancelled in the Exchange Offers through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, other tender or exchange offers, redemptions, repayment at maturity or such other means as the Company deems appropriate, subject to the restrictions in the Settlement Agreement, Stipulation and Order and regulatory restrictions.  Any such transactions will occur upon the terms and at the prices as the Company may determine in its sole discretion, which may be more or less favorable than the terms of the Exchange Offers, and could be for cash or other consideration.  The Company may choose to pursue any or none of these alternatives, or combinations thereof, in the future.. The surplus notes that remain outstanding following the consummation of the Exchange Offers are subordinated in right of payment to other claims, which could impair the right of the holders of such notes to receive interest and principal in the event of our insolvency or a similar occurrence.. The surplus notes are unsecured obligations of Ambac Assurance and are expressly subordinated in right of payment to all of Ambac Assurance's existing and future indebtedness (other than junior surplus notes) and policy claims.  The surplus notes are subject to provisions of Wisconsin insurance law, which establishes the priority of distribution of claims from the estate of an insolvent insurance company.  In the event that Ambac Assurance becomes subject to rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation or dissolution, holders of Ambac Assurance's senior indebtedness and policy claims would be afforded a higher priority of distribution than holders of the surplus notes, and accordingly would have the right to be paid in full before holders of the surplus notes would be paid.  Due to the nature of Ambac Assurance's business, the amount of such higher priority claims in any rehabilitation, liquidation, conservation or dissolution is likely to be many times greater than any free and divisible surplus and it is likely that the holders of surplus notes would not recover any payment in such circumstances.  In addition, claims of holders of the surplus notes will be subordinated to certain liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries that are guaranteed by Ambac Assurance.. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   18   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. Ambac Assurance has not made regular interest or principal payments on surplus notes and may be unable to repay surplus notes in full at maturity or ever.. On November 20, 2014, Ambac Assurance, with the approval of OCI, redeemed surplus notes (other than junior surplus notes) in an amount equal to 26.67% of the principal amount of the surplus notes, plus accrued interest thereon, outstanding as of July 20, 2014, or approximately $396 million owned by third parties.  However, except for a one-time payment of approximately six months of interest on the surplus notes (other than junior surplus notes) outstanding immediately after the Exchange Offers, no other interest or principal payments on the surplus notes have been approved or made to date, and Ambac Assurance may not receive approval from OCI to make payments as and when scheduled.  As a result, holders of surplus notes may not be paid in full at maturity or ever.  If OCI does not begin to approve regular payments on the surplus notes (other than junior surplus notes) within the next several years, the accretion of surplus notes may exceed our ability to ever repay in full the surplus notes.  If Ambac Assurance becomes subject to a  rehabilitation or liquidation under the Wisconsin insurance law, prior to the repayment of surplus notes, holders of surplus notes may not receive any recoveries on their investments.. The effects of the amendments to the Settlement Agreement in the recently completed consent solicitation done in connection with the Exchange Offers could materially and adversely affect the credit risk inherent in, and significantly reduce protections afforded in, surplus notes not validly tendered and accepted or received as consideration pursuant to the Exchange Offers.. Holders of surplus notes that were not tendered and accepted or were received as consideration pursuant to the Exchange Offers will be subject to the terms of the Settlement Agreement as modified, notwithstanding the fact that they did not deliver consents in the related consent solicitation.  Certain restrictive covenants and other related provisions in the Settlement Agreement, including covenants regarding mergers and consolidations and the incurrence of indebtedness, have been modified or eliminated.  As a result, holders of surplus notes no longer are entitled to the benefit of such provisions, which existed for the protection and benefit of holders of the surplus notes issued pursuant to the Settlement Agreement.  The Settlement Agreement, as so amended, continues to govern the terms of all surplus notes issued thereunder that remain outstanding after the consummation of the Exchange Offers and Rehabilitation Exit Transactions.  Accordingly, we may take certain actions in the future previously prohibited under the Settlement Agreement that could adversely affect the market prices of the surplus notes and otherwise increase the risks related to investments in the surplus notes.. Increases in interest rates will increase the cost of servicing our debt could reduce our profitability and could result in a decrease in the value of the Secured Notes.. The Secured Notes will bear interest at a variable rate. As a result, increases in interest rates will increase the cost of servicing the Secured Notes and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Each one percentage point increase in interest rates would result in an $21.8 million increase in the annual cash interest payments due on the Secured Notes.. Changes in inter-bank lending rate reporting practices or the method pursuant to which LIBOR rates are determined may adversely affect the value of LIBOR linked financial instruments.. Since February 1, 2014, the administration of LIBOR has been undertaken by ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (\"IBA\"), a subsidiary of Intercontinental Exchange Group. IBA, as the administrator of LIBOR, may make changes in methodology that could change the level of LIBOR, which in turn may adversely affect the value of financial instruments linked to LIBOR, including investment securities, swaps, and the Secured Notes. Since 2014, the IBA published multiple papers and other literature, including a \"LIBOR Code of Conduct\" relating to the setting of LIBOR. IBA has the power to alter, discontinue or suspend calculation or dissemination of LIBOR.. On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR rates after 2021 (the \"July 27th Announcement\"). The July 27th Announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. Consequently, at this time, it is not possible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR or whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.  Similarly, it is not possible to predict what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR of the effect of any such alternatives on the value of LIBOR-linked securities. Any of the above changes or any other consequential changes to LIBOR or any alternative rate or benchmark as a result of any international, national, or other proposals for reform or other initiatives or investigations, or any further uncertainty in relation to the timing and manner of implementation of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on the value investments in our investment portfolio, swaps we use for hedging, and the Secured Notes.. The amount of interest payable on the Secured Notes is set only once per interest period based on the three-month LIBOR rate on the applicable interest determination date, which rate may fluctuate substantially, and affect our ability to make payment on the Secured Notes.. In the past, the level of the three-month LIBOR rate has experienced significant fluctuations. Historical levels, fluctuations and trends of the three-month LIBOR rate are not necessarily indicative of future levels. Any historical upward or downward trend in the three-month LIBOR rate is not an indication that the three-month LIBOR rate is more or less likely to increase or decrease at any time during an interest period for the Secured Notes, and historical levels of the three-month LIBOR rate should not be taken as an indication of its future performance. In addition, although the actual three-month LIBOR rate on an interest payment date or at other times during an interest period may be higher than the three-month LIBOR rate on the applicable interest determination date, the only relevant date for purposes of determining the interest payable on the Secured Notes is the three-month LIBOR rate as of the respective interest determination date. Changes in the three-month LIBOR rates between interest determination dates will not affect the interest payable on the Secured Notes. As a result, changes in the three-month LIBOR rate may not result in a comparable change in the market value of the Secured Notes.. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   19   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. The Secured Notes will bear interest at floating rates that could rise significantly, increasing Ambac Assurance's interest expense and reducing its cash flow. If Ambac Assurance's interest expense increases significantly, whether due to changes in LIBOR or increased borrowing costs when its refinances its current indebtedness, Ambac Assurance may not be able to make payments with respect to the Secured Notes or its other indebtedness.. Ambac's representation and warranty recovery may change over time, causing the value or the perceived value of the collateral securing the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes to change and any such changes may be material.. Ambac reevaluates its estimated representation and warranty recoveries on a quarterly basis in connection with the preparation of its financial statements. See \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7, Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7. Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. As a result of any reevaluation, the amount of Ambac's representation and warranty recovery may be adjusted upward or downward due to, among other things, changes in management's view of the value of such recoveries and/or changes in the loss reserves related to such recoveries, and any adjustment may be material.  Changes in representation and warranty recoveries may result in material changes in Ambac's financial condition, including its capital and liquidity. In addition, any adjustment to representation and warranty recoveries may alter the value or the perceived value of the collateral securing the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes before payment on the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes is made in full, which may affect the value of, and trading market, if any, for, the Secured Notes or Tier 2 Notes. Management makes no representation that the representation and warranty recoveries will not change, materially or at all, including in the near term. There can be no assurance that the apparent, or actual, value of the collateral securing the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes will equal or exceed the principal amount of the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes, respectively, at all times prior to maturity.. Risks Related to Capital, Liquidity and Markets. Our inability to realize the expected recoveries included in our financial statements could adversely impact our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and the value of the Secured Notes and Tier 2 Notes.. As of December 31, 2017, we have estimated representation and warranty subrogation recoveries of $1,806.7 million (net of reinsurance) included in our financial statements. These recoveries are based on contractual claims arising from RMBS transactions that Ambac Assurance has insured, and represent a probability-weighted estimate of amounts we expect to recover under various possible scenarios, and do not represent the best or the worst possible outcomes with respect to any particular transaction or group of transactions. Our ability to recover these amounts and the time of the recoveries, if any, is subject to significant uncertainty, including risks inherent in litigation, collectability of such amounts from counterparties and/or their respective parents and affiliates, timing of receipt of any such recoveries, intervention by OCI, which could impede Ambac Assurance's ability to take the actions required to realize such recoveries, and uncertainties inherent in the assumptions used in estimating such recoveries. The amount. of these subrogation recoveries is significant and if we were unable to recover such amounts, our stockholders' equity as of December 31, 2017 would decrease from $1,645.3 million to $(161.4) million.. We expect to recover material amounts of claims payments through remediation measures including the litigation described above as well as through cash flows in the securitization structures of transactions that Ambac Assurance insures. Realization of such expected recoveries is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the rights and defenses of other parties with interests that conflict with Ambac Assurance's interests, the performance of the collateral and assets backing the obligations that Ambac Assurance insures, the performance of servicers involved in securitizations in which Ambac Assurance participates as insurer, and the effect on Ambac Assurance's rights of the Segregated Account rehabilitation. Additionally, our ability to realize recoveries in insured transactions may be impaired if orders of the Rehabilitation Court are not effective.. Adverse developments with respect to such variables may cause our recoveries to fall below expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our capital and liquidity.. Ambac's estimate of RMBS litigation recoveries is subject to significant uncertainty and changes to the estimate could adversely impact its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. For Ambac's current RMBS cases for which it records a representation and warranty recovery in its financial statements, Ambac has been provided access to loan files for all loans in the relevant original pool and Ambac utilizes a \"random sample\" approach to estimate such recoveries.  Ambac does not include estimates of damages attributed solely to fraudulent inducement claims in its estimate of representation and warranty recoveries.. The amount estimated for purposes of Ambac's representation and warranty recovery and the amount Ambac may ultimately receive is subject to significant uncertainty, including risks inherent in litigation, collectability of such amounts from counterparties and/or their respective parents and affiliates, timing of receipt of any recoveries, intervention by the OCI, which could impede Ambac's ability to take actions required to realize recoveries, and uncertainties inherent in the assumptions used in estimating any recoveries. In particular, Ambac's assumptions regarding default rates of the loans and Ambac's expectations with respect to the RMBS litigations have a significant impact on Ambac's estimated representation and warranty recoveries. If these assumptions, expectations or estimates prove to be incorrect, or if an investor were to use different assumptions, expectations or estimates to predict recoveries, actual recoveries could differ materially from those estimated. Actual recovery will ultimately depend on future events and there can be no assurance that the assumed default rates or estimated RMBS litigations recoveries will not differ from actual events. Although Ambac believes that its methodology for extrapolating estimated recoveries is appropriate for evaluating the amount of potential recoveries, the methodologies Ambac uses to estimate expected losses in general and for any specific obligation in particular may not be similar to methodologies used by Ambac's competitors, counterparties or other market participants. The determination of expected recovery is an inherently subjective. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   20   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. process involving numerous estimates, assumptions and judgments by management, using both internal and external data sources with regard to frequency, economic projections and other factors that affect credit performance. As a result, Ambac's current estimates may not reflect Ambac's future ultimate recovery and management makes no representation that the actual amount recovered, if any, will not differ materially from those estimated. The failure of Ambac's actual recovery to meet or exceed its current estimate could result in a material adverse effect on Ambac's financial condition, including its capital and liquidity.. The surplus notes that remain outstanding and that were received by holders of Deferred Amounts from Ambac pursuant to the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation may not be fungible with the other surplus notes that remain outstanding following the consummation of the Exchange Offers.. The surplus notes that were held by Supporting Holders but were not accepted for tender and that remain outstanding following the consummation of the Exchange Offers will accrue original issue discount (\"OID\") in a manner that differs from the accrual of OID on the surplus notes received by holders of Deferred Amounts from Ambac pursuant to the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation, and, therefore, the surplus notes that were held by Supporting Holders but were not accepted for tender and that remain outstanding following the consummation of the Exchange Offers will not be fungible with the surplus notes received by holders of Deferred Amounts from AFG pursuant to the Second Amended Plan of Rehabilitation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We may not be able to commute or reduce insured exposures.. In pursuing the objective of improving its financial position, we are seeking to commute or reduce insured exposures. Transactions of this nature may not be feasible or economically viable.  We cannot provide any assurance that any such transaction will be consummated in the future, or if it is, as to the timing, terms or conditions of any such transaction.  Even if we consummate one or more such transactions, doing so may ultimately prove to be unsuccessful in creating value for any or all of our stakeholders and may adversely affect our operating results or financial position.. Revenues and cash flow would be adversely impacted by a decline in realization of installment premiums.. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, Ambac Assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by Ambac Assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). Additionally, the Segregated Account rehabilitation may result in the loss of installment premium income from such insured transactions if orders of the Rehabilitation Court are not effective.  Such reductions would result in lower revenues.. The change in composition of the securities in our investment portfolio exposes us to greater risk.. Each of Ambac Assurance and Ambac Assurance UK Limited (\"Ambac UK\") maintains a portion of its investment portfolio in lower-rated securities and/or \"alternative assets\" in order to increase the risk-adjusted return on its portfolio. Investments in lower-rated securities and \"alternative assets\" could expose Ambac. and/or Ambac UK to greater earnings volatility, increased losses and decreased liquidity in the investment portfolio.. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain third-party financing or raise additional third-party capital on acceptable terms, or at all.. An inability to obtain third-party debt financing or raise additional third-party capital, when required by us or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The economic conditions affecting our industry, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities.  Our ability to secure third-party financing, if available, and to satisfy or refinance our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon regulatory conditions, our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  The market conditions and the macroeconomic conditions that affect our industry could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure third-party financing on favorable terms, if at all.. If third-party financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance our outstanding indebtedness, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ambac Assurance may in the future report a policyholders' deficit or become insolvent.. Our expected financial condition after the consummation of the Rehabilitation Exit Transactions is based on various assumptions concerning these transactions, including accounting and tax treatment.  There can be no assurance that the assumptions will not differ materially from the ultimate results of such transactions and any differences may be material.  In addition, while the Rehabilitation Exit Transactions and related transactions were designed to improve our financial condition, we will continue to be subject to risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our financial position.  Therefore, even following consummation of the Rehabilitation Exit Transactions, circumstances may occur that would cause Ambac Assurance to report a policyholders' deficit or not comply in the future with the statutory minimum policyholders' surplus or undergo rehabilitation.  In addition, Ambac Assurance may become insolvent in the future.  OCI has prescribed or permitted additional accounting practices for Ambac Assurance and Everspan which are described in Note 8. Insurance Regulatory Restrictions to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this  Form 10-K.  If Ambac Assurance and Everspan are unable to utilize the permitted or prescribed practices, we may not comply with the statutory minimum policyholders' surplus.. The determination of the amount of other-than temporary impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.. The determination of the amount of impairments on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   21   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. In particular, we use externally developed financial models to project impairments with respect to RMBS held in our investment portfolio, including Ambac Assurance guaranteed RMBS. Differences in the models we employ and/or flaws in these models and/or faulty assumptions inherent in these models and those determined by management, could lead to increased impairments with respect to RMBS in our investment portfolio.. Risks Related to the Financial and Credit Markets. Changes in prevailing interest rate levels and market conditions could adversely impact our business results and prospects.. Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. In the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims, to pay debt obligations, or to meet Financial Services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Additionally, increasing interest rates would have an adverse impact on our insured portfolio. For example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations that bear interest at floating rates of interest. Higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations), slower prepayment speeds and resulting \"extension risk\" relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured and investment portfolios, and decreased refinancing activity.. Decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned for these transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income and may adversely impact our interest rate swap portfolio.. Our investment portfolio may also be adversely affected by credit rating downgrades, ABS and RMBS prepayment speeds, foreign exchange movements, spread volatility, and credit losses.. We are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, risk concentrations, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk.. We are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. These credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, and/or estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; and we could. experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); losses caused by increases in municipal defaults; or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. We are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows.. Ambac Assurance is defending various lawsuits relating to its financial guarantee business.  In addition, the Company from time to time receives various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. Please see Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this Form 10-K for information on these various proceedings.. It is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed against Ambac, Ambac Assurance or one or more other subsidiaries or whether additional regulatory inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. It is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. Under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurring of significant litigation expenses could be material to our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows.. The Settlement Agreement and Stipulation and Order contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to pursue our business strategies.. Pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement and Stipulation and Order, Ambac Assurance must seek prior approval by OCI of certain corporate actions. The Settlement Agreement and Stipulation and Order also include covenants which restrict the operations of Ambac Assurance which, in the case of the Settlement Agreement, remain in force until the surplus notes that were issued pursuant to the Settlement Agreement have been redeemed, repurchased or repaid in full, and, in the case of the Stipulation and Order, remain in place until the OCI decides to relax such restrictions. Certain of these restrictions may be waived with the approval of holders of the surplus notes issued pursuant to the Settlement Agreement and/or OCI. If we are unable to obtain the required consents under the Settlement Agreement and/or Stipulation and Order, we may not be able to execute our planned business strategies.. OCI has certain enforcement rights with respect to the Settlement Agreement and Stipulation and Order. Disputes may arise over the interpretation of such agreements, the exercise or purported exercise of rights thereunder, or the performance of or failure or purported failure to perform obligations thereunder. Any such dispute could have material adverse effects on the Company, whether through litigation, administrative proceedings,. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   22   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. supervisory orders, failure to execute transactions sought by management, interference with corporate strategies, objectives or prerogatives, inefficient decision-making or execution, forced realignment of resources, increased costs, distractions to management, strained working relationships or otherwise. Such effects would also increase the risk that OCI would seek to initiate rehabilitation proceedings against Ambac Assurance.. System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We rely on our information technology systems for many enterprise-critical functions and a prolonged failure or interruption of these systems for any reason could cause significant disruption to our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our information technology and application systems may be vulnerable to threats from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attack and other similar disruptions. Computer hackers may be able to penetrate our network's system security and misappropriate or compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition to our own confidential information, we sometimes receive and are required to protect confidential information from third parties. To the extent any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information or that of others, it could cause significant financial losses that are either not, or not fully, insured against, damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with third parties, lead to claims against us, result in regulatory action, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to mitigate the damage caused by any security breach, or to protect against future damage. Moreover, although we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, we may not be able to adequately execute these plans in a timely fashion in the event of a disruption to our information technology and application systems.. We may incur losses resulting from operational risk due to inadequate or failed internal processes, breakdown of settlement or communication systems, or from external events leading to disruption of our business. Events subject to operational risk include:. • Internal Fraud-misappropriation of assets, intentional mismarking of positions. • External Fraud-theft of information, third-party theft and forgery. • Clients, Products, & Business Practice-improper trade, fiduciary breaches. • Damage to Physical Assets. • Business Disruption & System Failures-software failures, hardware failures; and. • Execution, Delivery, & Process Management-data entry errors, accounting errors, failed mandatory reporting, settlement errors, and negligence.. We may be adversely affected by failures in services or products provided by third parties.. We have outsourced and may continue to outsource certain activities of our operations and business, and rely upon third-party vendors for other essential services and information, such as the provision of data used in setting loss reserves and the provision of risk management information and services. A material failure by an external service or information provider or a material defect in the products, services or information provided thereby could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business.. Our ability to execute on our business strategies depend on the retention and recruitment of qualified executives and other professionals. We rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. In addition to these officers, we require key staff with risk mitigation, structured finance, insurance, credit, investment, accounting, finance, legal and technical skills. As a result of Ambac's financial situation, there is a higher risk that executive officers and other key staff will leave the Company and replacements may not be motivated to join the Company. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel could delay or prevent us from succeeding in executing our strategies, which could further negatively impact our business.. Our business could be negatively affected by actions of stakeholders whose interests may not be aligned with the broader interests of our stockholders.. Ambac could be negatively affected as a result of actions by stakeholders whose interests may not be aligned with the broader interests of our stockholders, and responding to any such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt operations and divert the attention of management and employees.  Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute on our strategic plans.. Risks Related to International Business. Actions of the PRA and FCA could reduce the value of Ambac UK realizable by Ambac, which would adversely affect our securityholders.. Ambac's international business is operated by Ambac UK, which is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (\"PRA\") for prudential purposes and the Financial Conduct Authority (\"FCA\") for conduct purposes. Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (\"FSMA\"), the PRA authorized Ambac UK to carry out financial guaranty insurance business in the UK and in the EU by way of the EU's passporting regime (although this may change following Brexit), subject to the terms and conditions of the permission granted by the PRA and consented to by the FCA.   However, the terms of Ambac UK's regulatory authority are now restricted and Ambac UK is in run-off.  Among other things, Ambac UK may not write any new business, and, with respect to any entity within the Ambac group of affiliates, commute, vary or terminate any existing financial guaranty policy, transfer certain assets, or pay dividends, without the prior approval of the PRA and FCA.  The PRA and FCA act generally in the interests of Ambac UK policyholders and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of Ambac or Ambac Assurance when considering whether to provide any such approval.  Accordingly,. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   23   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. determinations made by the PRA and FCA, in their capacity as Ambac UK's regulator, could potentially result in adverse consequences for our securityholders and also reduce the value realizable by Ambac for Ambac UK.. Regulatory uncertainty in relation to Ambac UK's capital position could adversely affect the value of Ambac UK and affect our securityholders.. Under applicable regulatory capital rules (\"Solvency II\") Ambac UK remains significantly deficient in terms of capital.  Ambac UK does not have a remedial plan other than to build its assets over time by on-going premium collections and earned investment income, as well as attempting to accelerate the run-off of its exposures.  Further, there currently is no prospect of any capital support from the Ambac group of affiliates.  The PRA is well aware of Ambac UK's position and prospects. The PRA supervisory statement SS7/15 \"Supervision of firms in difficulty or run-off\" notes that \"there are many circumstances in which a run-off strategy is in the best interests of policyholders\" and notes that the PRA will review such firms and that they \"may be permitted to continue activities necessary to carry out existing contracts in a manner, and for so long as, the PRA considers necessary in order to afford an appropriate degree of protection to policyholders\".  AUK clearly falls into this category and therefore AUK's current run off approach remains at all times subject to the PRA continuing to take no action in relation to its capital deficit and related Solvency II requirements. Alternative courses of action open to the PRA could adversely impact the anticipated run-off trajectory of Ambac UK and impact its value.. Uncertainty regarding the economic impact of \"Brexit\" may have an adverse effect on Ambac's insured international portfolio and the value of its foreign investments, both of which primarily reside with its subsidiary Ambac UK.. In a non-binding referendum on the United Kingdom's (\"UK\") membership in the European Union (\"EU\") in June 2016, a majority of those who voted approved the UK's withdrawal from the EU. As a result of the referendum, in March 2017 the UK government gave the EU formal notification of its intent to leave with the expectation of formal withdraw two years later on 29 March 2019. Also in March 2017 the UK began initial (or phase one) negotiations with the EU regarding the terms of its departure (\"Brexit\"). On 8 December 2017 the EU and UK jointly announced, as set out in the Joint Report and Commission Communication of 8 December (\"Joint Report\"), that \"sufficient progress\" in phase one of the separation negotiations between the parties had been made to permit Brexit negotiations to move on to a more detailed phase two beginning in January 2018.. The Joint Report is \"a summary of the negotiations toward the legally binding withdrawal agreement\" and is not itself legally binding but rather is a position paper setting out current agreement between the EU and the UK Government in three priority areas (citizens' rights, the financial settlement and the Irish border).  It also notes progress on other separation issues that have not yet been settled.  Further details of the negotiations are provided in the House of Commons Briefing Paper Number 8183, 18 December 2017.. While phase two Brexit separation discussions commenced in January 2018, these discussions will not include details of future, post-Brexit, trade relations. What is envisaged in the Joint Report. next is \"an agreement as early as possible in 2018 on transitional arrangements\". A further, separate, mandate for negotiations on a future post-transition trade framework is anticipated to begin by summer 2018.  It is envisaged negotiations on the future trade framework will be concluded during the actual transitional phase, and will be influenced by the nature of the transitional arrangements agreed between the parties.. If no transitional arrangements or new agreements are put into place, Brexit will mean that the activities in the EEA of UK passporting insurers will become unlawful on 29 March 2019. They will lose their legal authorization to serve clients who benefit from policies issued by a UK incorporated insurer under freedom of services passporting rights (and thereby maybe unable to legally collect premiums or pay claims) and if they have branches in EEA Member States they may be legally obliged to close them down and no longer be legally represented in those jurisdictions.. In light of the materiality of the insurance sector to the UK economy and taking into account the significant amount of insurance business undertaken by EEA based insurers in the UK (which will be similarly affected) it is expected that transition arrangements will be put in place leading to insurers being able to continue to service EU policies beyond 29 March 2019 for at least a transition period and likely to their natural run-off in relation to policies written prior to 29 March 2019.  However, at this stage there is no certainly that such a transition agreement can be reached between the EU and the UK Government.. Ambac UK has seven policies in the EU written under current passporting rights the aggregate par value of which as at December 31, 2017 is $2.6 billion and as noted Ambac UK's ability to service these contracts beyond 29 March 2019 is currently unclear until legally binding Brexit transition agreements are put into place prior to that date.. In addition to the direct impact on insurers cited above, general uncertainty and the perceptions as to the ultimate impact of Brexit may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere. The economic outlook could be further adversely affected by (i) the risk that one or more other EU countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the EU, (ii) the risk of a greater demand for independence by Scottish nationalists or for unification in Ireland and its impact on the United Kingdom, or (iii) the risk that the Euro as the single currency of the Eurozone could cease to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could have a material adverse effect on economic growth or business activity in the UK, the Eurozone, and/or the EU, and could result in the relocation of businesses, cause business interruptions, lead to economic recession or depression, and impact the stability of the financial markets, the availability of credit, political systems or financial institutions and the financial and monetary system.. These economic conditions, particularly a recession or depression, may have a material adverse effect on Ambac's international insured exposures particularly in the UK and Europe, the majority of which reside in Ambac UK. The creditworthiness of Ambac's international insured exposures is subject to risks associated with, among other matters, lower asset values related to collateral backing transactions, depressed demand for services resulting in lower operating cash flows and reduced access to the capital. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   24   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. markets and other sources of financing or refinancing. In addition, such conditions may have a material adverse effect on the value and volatility of investments, including investments in UK property funds and equities that Ambac maintains, mainly through Ambac UK, in markets and currencies outside of the U.S. Collectively, these effects may have a negative impact on Ambac's operating results and financial condition resulting from unexpected credit, investment and foreign exchange losses, volatile asset values, reduced liquidity and lost revenues.. The uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the Brexit could result in additional volatility in the equity, foreign exchange, real property, bond and other markets, which could adversely impact the UK economy and Ambac's results of operations and financial condition over the near and long term.. Risks Related to Taxation. Certain surplus notes or other obligations of Ambac Assurance may be characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance and as a result, Ambac Assurance may no longer be a member of the U.S. federal income tax consolidated group of which Ambac is the common parent.. It is possible that certain surplus notes or other obligations of Ambac Assurance may be characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If such surplus notes or other obligations are characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance that is taken into account for tax affiliation purposes and it is determined that such \"equity\" represented more than twenty percent of the total value of the stock of Ambac Assurance, Ambac Assurance may no longer be characterized as an includable corporation that is affiliated with Ambac. As a result, Ambac Assurance would no longer be characterized as a member of the U.S. federal income tax consolidated group of which Ambac is the common parent (the \"Ambac Consolidated Group\") and Ambac Assurance would be required to file a separate consolidated tax return as the common parent of a new U.S. federal income tax consolidated group including Ambac Assurance as the new common parent and Ambac Assurance's affiliated subsidiaries (the \"Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group\").. To the extent Ambac Assurance is no longer a member of the Ambac Consolidated Group, Ambac Assurance's NOLs (and certain other available tax attributes of Ambac Assurance and the other members of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group) may no longer be available for use by the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group or any of the remaining members of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group to reduce the U.S. federal income tax liabilities of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group. Ambac, Ambac Assurance and their affiliates entered into a tax sharing agreement that would require Ambac to make certain tax elections that could mitigate the loss of NOLs and other tax attributes resulting from a deconsolidation of Ambac Assurance from the Ambac Consolidated Group. However, in the event of a deconsolidation, certain other benefits resulting from U.S. federal income tax consolidation may no longer be available to the Ambac Consolidated Group including certain favorable rules relating to transactions occurring between members of the Ambac Consolidated Group and members of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group.. If surplus notes or other obligations are characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance, the Ambac Assurance NOLs (and certain. other tax attributes or tax benefits of the Ambac Consolidated Group) may be subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Tax Code.. It is possible that certain surplus notes or other obligations may be characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in an \"ownership change\" of Ambac Assurance for purposes of Section 382 of the Tax Code. If such an ownership change were to occur, the value and amount of the Ambac Assurance NOLs would be substantially impaired, increasing the U.S. federal income tax liability of Ambac Assurance and materially reducing the value of Ambac Assurance's stock owned by Ambac and the potential of future cash tolling or dividend payments from Ambac Assurance to Ambac.. Deductions with respect to interest accruing on certain surplus notes may be eliminated or deferred until payment.. To the extent certain surplus notes are characterized as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, accrued interest will not be deductible by Ambac Assurance. In addition, even if such surplus notes are characterized as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the deduction of interest accruing on such surplus notes may be deferred until paid or eliminated in part depending upon (i) the terms of any deferral and payment provisions provided in such surplus notes, (ii) whether such surplus notes have \"significant original issue discount,\" and (iii) the yield to maturity of surplus notes. To the extent deductions with respect to interest are eliminated or deferred, the U.S. federal income tax of the members of the Ambac Consolidated Group or the members of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group as the case may be, could be increased reducing the amount of cash available to pay its obligations.. Changes in Political or Economic Conditions. Implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have unexpected or adverse consequences for the Company and the value of its securities, particularly its common shares.. On December 22, 2017, new tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, was signed into law.  Amongst other things, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act implemented a sweeping overhaul of the U.S. tax laws applicable to corporations.  A major provision of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was a reduction of the maximum corporate federal income tax rate to 21% from 35%, which resulted in the Company reducing the value of its net deferred tax asset, the impact of which was offset by a change in valuation allowance.  As a result of the reduction in the corporate federal tax rate, the maximum amount of future tolling payments AFG may receive from Ambac Assurance, for tax years beginning with 2018, will also be reduced to approximately $56 million from $97 million.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also requires U.S. corporations to pay federal income tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings accumulated under legacy tax laws included in income, for the last taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018.  As a result of this and other provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Ambac Assurance is expected to make additional tax payments in 2017 related to alternative minimum tax, which will be refundable in the future. The aforementioned as well as other provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, such as those relating to the limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, the Global Tax Intangible Low Taxed Income and Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax, may also have an adverse impact on Ambac Assurance's and/or AFG's future financial condition and results of. | Ambac Financial Group, Inc.   25   2017 FORM 10-K |. Table of Contents. operations that is difficult to predict at this time.  Any adverse impact or the perception of an adverse impact may cause the value of Ambac Assurance's and/or AFG's securities, particularly its common shares, to decline.. Risks Related to Strategic Plan. Ambac is exploring select business opportunities which may permit utilization of Ambac's net operating loss carry-forwards; however, such business opportunities may not be consummated, or if consummated, may not create value and may negatively impact our financial results.. Ambac is exploring select business opportunities which may, amongst other things, permit utilization of its net operating loss carry-forwards.  Such business opportunities, may involve the acquisition of assets or existing businesses or the development of businesses through new or existing subsidiaries. It is not possible at this time to predict the future prospects or other characteristics of any such business opportunities. Although we intend to conduct business, financial and legal due diligence in connection with the evaluation of any future business or acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance our due diligence investigations will identify every matter that could have a material adverse effect on us. Efforts to pursue select business opportunities may be unsuccessful or require significant financial or other resources, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. No assurance can be given that Ambac will be able to complete such business opportunities, generate any earnings or be able to successfully integrate any such business into our current operating structure.. Moreover, Ambac's ability to enter new businesses, including new businesses apart from Ambac Assurance, is also subject to significant doubt, given the financial condition of Ambac Assurance, the difficulty of leveraging or monetizing Ambac's other assets, and the uncertainty of its ability to raise capital. Due to these factors, as well as those relating to Ambac Assurance as described in this Item 1A. Risk Factors, the value of our securities is speculative.. Ambac's current strategy and initiatives have been derived from, and created as a consequence of, the company's current financial condition and circumstances. Should changes in Ambac's circumstances or financial condition or in the political, economic and/or legal environment occur, there can be no assurances that all or any part of such strategy and/or initiatives will not be abandoned or amended to take account of such changes. Any such adjustment or abandonment may have an adverse effect on our securities."
