[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute \"forward-looking statements\" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or currently believed to be immaterial. 5. also may adversely impact the Company's business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties, which the Company considers to be most relevant to specific business activities, include, but are not limited to, the following.  Additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition are discussed elsewhere in this report, including in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" under the headings \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" \"Seasonality,\" and \"Outlook for Fiscal 2019\" and Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". Because of the concentration of our sales to our two largest customers, the loss of either customer or a significant reduction in orders from either customer could adversely affect our financial results.  Home Depot and Lowe's collectively accounted for approximately 41.8% of total gross sales during the fiscal year 2018 and with the RSI Acquisition, we expect this concentration to significantly increase. We do not typically enter into long-term sales contracts with Home Depot or Lowe's and our sales usually occur on a \"purchase order\" basis. Our customers can make significant changes in their purchase volumes and can seek to significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services and the other terms and conditions on which we do business. They have discontinued, and may in the future choose to discontinue, purchasing some or all of our products with little or no notice. In the past, purchase volumes from our customers, including Home Depot and Lowe's, have fluctuated substantially, and we expect such fluctuations to occur from time to time in the future. Any reduction in, or termination of, our sales to either Home Depot or Lowe's could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, the potential for orders from these large retail customers to increase significantly from time to time requires us to have sufficient manufacturing capacity. These large retailers also impose strict logistics and performance obligations. Failure to comply with these obligations may result in these customers reducing or stopping their purchase of our products.. We could also experience delays or defaults in payment from Home Depot or Lowe's, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of a substantial portion of our order volumes or revenue from either Home Depot or Lowe's for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business primarily relies on U.S. home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. Downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  Our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels in the United States. The housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. Although the U.S. new home construction market is improving, demand for new homes is still recovering after the 2007-2009 U.S. economic recession and continues to remain below historical levels.. Prolonged economic downturns may adversely impact our sales, earnings and liquidity. Our industry historically has been cyclical in nature and has fluctuated with economic cycles. During economic downturns, our industry could experience longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. We believe that our industry is significantly influenced by economic conditions generally and particularly by housing activity, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, demographics and credit availability. These factors may affect not only the ultimate consumer of our products, but also may impact home centers, builders and our other primary customers. As a result, a worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our sales and earnings as well as our cash flow and liquidity.. The U.S. cabinetry industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We operate within the highly competitive U.S. cabinetry industry, which is characterized by competition from a number of other manufacturers. Competition is further intensified during economic downturns. We compete with numerous large national and regional home products companies for, among other things, customers, orders from Home Depot and Lowe's, raw materials and skilled management and labor resources.  Purchase volumes from our main home center customers have fluctuated substantially from time to time in the past, and we expect such fluctuations to occur from time to time in the future.. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and, therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer preferences more quickly, devote more resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can.. 6. In addition, some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain or gain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization, and we may have to adjust the prices on some of our products to stay competitive, which could reduce our revenues. We may not ultimately succeed in competing with other manufacturers and distributors in our market, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our failure to develop new products or respond to changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  The U.S. cabinetry industry is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling new products, could lead to, among other things, rejection of a new product line, reduced demand and price reductions for our products. If our products do not keep up with consumer trends, demands and preference, we could lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes to consumer shopping habits and potential trends toward \"online\" purchases could also impact our ability to compete. Further, the volatile and challenging economic environment of recent years has caused shifts in consumer trends, demands, preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. Shifts in consumer preferences, which may or may not be long-term, have altered the quantity, type and prices of products demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. If we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our relationships with our customers could be harmed, the demand for our products could be reduced and our market share could be negatively affected.. We may fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits of our growth strategy within the dealer and homebuilder channels.  Part of our growth strategy depends on expanding our business in the dealer and homebuilder channels. We may fail to compete successfully against other companies that are already established providers within the dealer and homebuilder channels.  Demand for our products within the homebuilder and dealer channels may not grow, or might even decline. In addition, we may not accurately gauge consumer preferences and successfully develop, manufacture and market our products at a national level. Further, the implementation of our growth strategy may place additional demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and may divert management's attention away from our existing business and increase the demands on our financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to effectively manage growth, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If our growth strategy is not successful then our revenue and earnings may not grow as anticipated or may decline, we may not be profitable, or our reputation and brand may be damaged. In addition, we may change our financial strategy or other components of our overall business strategy if we believe our current strategy is not effective, if our business or markets change, or for other reasons, which may cause fluctuations in our financial results.. Manufacturing expansion to add capacity, manufacturing realignments, and other cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our near-term earnings.  We continually review our manufacturing operations. These reviews could result in the expansion of capacity, manufacturing realignments and various cost savings programs. Effects of manufacturing expansion, realignments or cost savings programs could result in a decrease in our short-term earnings until the additional capacity is in place, cost reductions are achieved and/or production volumes stabilize. Such manufacturing expansions, realignments and programs involve substantial planning, often require capital investments, and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. We also cannot assure you that we will achieve all of the intended cost savings. Our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, downturns in the economy could potentially have a larger impact on the Company as a result of this added capacity.. We may record future goodwill impairment charges or other asset impairment charges which could negatively impact our future results of operations and financial condition.  We have recorded significant goodwill as a result of the RSI Acquisition, and goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. We also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets which we review both on an annual basis as well as when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If a determination is made that a significant impairment in value of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets has occurred, such determination could require us to impair a substantial portion of our assets. Asset impairments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuating raw material and energy costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  We purchase various raw materials, including, among others, wood, wood-based and resin products, which are subject to price fluctuations that could materially increase our manufacturing costs. Further, increases in energy costs increase our production. 7. costs and also the cost to transport our products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, some of our suppliers have consolidated and other suppliers may do so in the future. Combined with increased demand, such consolidation could increase the price of our supplies and raw materials.. We also may be unwilling or unable to pass on to customers commensurate cost increases. Competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. To the extent we are unable to either re-engineer or otherwise offset increased costs or are unwilling or unable to build price increases into our sales prices, our margins will be negatively affected. Even if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. Conversely, when raw materials or energy prices decline, we may receive customer pressure to reduce our sales prices.. These prices are market-based and fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. We do not have long-term fixed supply agreements and do not hedge against price fluctuations. We, therefore, cannot predict our raw materials costs for the coming year.. The inability to obtain raw materials from suppliers in a timely manner would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products.  Our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of components from manufacturers and other suppliers, particularly wood-based and resin products. Failure by our suppliers to provide us with quality products on commercially reasonable terms, and to comply with legal requirements for business practices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively, on outside suppliers for some of our key components. While we do not rely exclusively on any one supplier for any particular raw materials, the loss of a major supplier could increase our costs to obtain raw materials until we obtain an adequate alternative source.. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. Instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a \"purchase order\" basis. Although these components are generally obtainable in sufficient quantities from other sources, resourcing them from another supplier could take time. Financial, operating, or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing enough products to meet customer demands.. Our operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusions.  We rely on a number of information technology systems to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. We have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. Despite these efforts, systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. These breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation, exposure to litigation and increased operational costs. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experience any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation.. Increased compliance costs or liabilities associated with environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Our facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and permits, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of waste, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of worker health and safety. We may not be in complete compliance with these laws, regulations or permits at all times. Our efforts to comply with environmental requirements do not remove the risk that we may incur material liabilities, fines or penalties for, among other things, releases of regulated materials occurring on or emanating from current or formerly owned or operated properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or for contamination discovered at any of our properties from activities conducted by previous occupants. Liability for environmental contamination or a release of hazardous materials may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations or the discovery of previously unknown contamination or other liabilities relating to our properties and operations could result in significant environmental liabilities that could impact our business, financial condition or results of operation. In addition, we may incur capital and other costs to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws and enforcement policies. These laws, including, for example, the regulations relating to formaldehyde emissions promulgated by the California Air Resources Board, require us to rely on compliance by our suppliers of raw materials. Should a supplier fail to comply with such regulations, notify us of non-compliance, or provide us with a product that does not comply, we could be subject to disruption in our business and incur substantial liabilities.. 8. Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by customers, employees or third parties could harm our business.  We rely on the internet and other electronic methods to transmit confidential information and store confidential information on our networks. If there were a disclosure of confidential information provided by, or concerning, our employees, customers or other third parties, including through inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, or unauthorized access, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to civil or criminal liability and regulatory actions.. Changes in government and industry regulatory standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Government regulations pertaining to health and safety and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. These regulations include the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other worker safety regulations for the protection of employees, as well as regulations for the protection of consumers. It is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes. Compliance with these regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. Such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position.. The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results.  Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills and know-how that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers or other key employees, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. Moreover, the pool of qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. The loss of the services of any key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could impair our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products, sell products to our customers or manage our business effectively.. We could continue to pursue growth opportunities through either acquisitions, mergers or internally developed projects, which may be unsuccessful or may adversely affect future financial condition and operating results.  We could continue to pursue opportunities for growth through either acquisitions, mergers or internally developed projects as part of our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating an acquired business or that an internally developed project will perform at the levels we anticipate. We may pay for future acquisitions using cash, stock, the assumption of debt, or a combination of these. Future acquisitions could result in dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. In addition, we may fail to identify significant liabilities or risks associated with a given acquisition that could adversely affect our future financial condition and operating results or result in us paying more for the acquired business or assets than they are worth.. Our ability to operate and our growth potential could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot employ, train and retain qualified personnel at a competitive cost.  Many of the products that we manufacture and assemble require manual processes in plant environments.  We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, employ, train and retain qualified personnel with the ability to design, manufacture and assemble these products. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force as the housing market continues to recover in the United States. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our qualified labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. In addition, we believe that our success depends in part on our ability to quickly and effectively train additional workforce to handle the increased volume and production while minimizing labor inefficiencies and maintaining product quality in a housing market recovery. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and any growth potential could be impaired.. We manufacture our products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally.  We manufacture our products in the United States and Mexico and sell our products in the United States and Canada.  Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the United States, and compliance with U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws, economic sanctions and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws. While we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents, our existing safeguards and policies to assure compliance and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions including fines, debarment from export privileges and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 9. We may hedge certain foreign currency transactions in the future; however, a change in the value of the currencies may impact our financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position in local currency of our products, making it more difficult for us to compete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our business through the impact of these potential changes.. In addition, we source raw materials and components from Asia where we have recently experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. Our international sourcing of materials could be harmed by a variety of factors including:. • introduction of non-native invasive organisms into new environments;. • recessionary trends in international markets;. • legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of our compliance with a variety of laws, including export controls, import and customs trade restrictions and tariffs;. • increases in transportation costs or transportation delays;. • work stoppages and labor strikes;. • fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies; and. • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability.. If any of these or other factors were to render the conduct of our business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our failure to maintain acceptable quality standards could result in significant unexpected costs.  Any failure to maintain acceptable quality standards could require us to recall or redesign such products, or pay substantial damages, any of which would result in significant unexpected costs. We may also have difficulty controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, so we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. Further, any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could decrease our credibility, harm our reputations, adversely affect our sales, or increase our costs. Defects in our products could also result in decreased orders or sales to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. New U.S. tax legislation could adversely affect us.  On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\") into law. The Tax Act is generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The Tax Act includes significant amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended, the \"Code\"), including amendments that lower the U.S. corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% and impact the taxation of offshore earnings and the deductibility of interest. Some of the amendments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Comprehensive tax legislation enacted through the Tax Act significantly modified U.S. corporate income tax law. Provisional amounts have been recorded in our financial statements based on the Company's initial analysis of the Tax Act. The Company may adjust these amounts in future periods if our interpretation of the Tax Act changes or as additional guidance from the U.S. Treasury becomes available.. Future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate and the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits.  Our businesses are subject to taxation in the United States as well as internationally. Tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material adverse impact on our worldwide income tax provision. Tax authorities in many jurisdictions routinely audit us. Because there are significant uncertainties in the outcome of such audits, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement.. Natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Many of our facilities are located in regions that are vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, tropical storms and snow and ice, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries. Our redundant, multiple site capacity may not be sufficient in the event of a natural disaster, terrorist act or other catastrophic event. Such disruptions could, among other things, disrupt our manufacturing or distribution facilities and result in delays or cancellations of customer orders for our products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if a natural disaster occurs in a region from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue, end-user customers in that region may delay or forego purchases of our products, which may materially and adversely impact our operating results for a particular period.. 10. Our ability to grow and compete in the future will be adversely affected if adequate capital is not available to us or not available on terms favorable to us.  The ability of our business to grow and compete depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part on our cash flow from operations and the availability of equity and debt financing. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on acceptable terms, if at all, to implement our growth strategy. As a result, we cannot assure you that adequate capital will be available to finance our current growth plans, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business.. Certain of our customers have been expanding and may continue to expand through consolidation and internal growth, which may increase their buying power, which could materially and adversely affect our sales, results of operations and financial position.  Certain of our customers are large companies with significant buying power. In addition, potential further consolidation in the distribution channels could enhance the ability of certain of our customers to seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for the products that they purchase from us. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or raise prices in the future may be limited, including during periods of raw material and other cost increases. If we are forced to reduce prices or to maintain prices during periods of increased costs, or if we lose customers because of pricing or other methods of competition, our sales, operating results and financial position may be materially and adversely affected.. We may experience difficulties in integrating American Woodmark and RSI's operations and realizing the expected benefits of the RSI Acquisition.  The success of the RSI Acquisition will depend in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining with RSI in an efficient and effective manner. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Further, our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures.. The integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and RSI's ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or other third parties, or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and could harm our financial performance. If we are unable to successfully or timely integrate the operations of RSI's business with our business, we may incur unanticipated liabilities and be unable to realize the revenue growth, synergies and other anticipated benefits resulting from the transaction, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. American Woodmark and RSI's important business relationships may be disrupted due to the RSI Acquisition, which could adversely affect American Woodmark's and RSI's business, respectively.  Some of the parties with which American Woodmark and RSI do business may be uncertain about their business relationships with the combined company as a result of the RSI Acquisition. For example, customers, partners, resellers, suppliers, vendors and others may consider entering into alternative business relationships with other parties. Some of RSI's customers, partners, resellers, suppliers, vendors and others may decide to exercise their rights to terminate contracts that were triggered upon completion of the RSI Acquisition. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on RSI's and/or American Woodmark's businesses, financial condition or results of operations, or the prospects of the combined company.. Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position.  Our consolidated indebtedness level could have important consequences to us, including, among other things, increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; requiring a portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because borrowings under our credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, due to the costs and expenses associated with such debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under our credit facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition in a material way.. 11. The credit agreement that governs our credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities or otherwise negatively impact our business.  The credit agreement that governs our credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us.  These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and certain other fundamental changes; dispose of assets; make advances, investments and loans; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; enter into contractual arrangements that encumber or restrict the ability to (A) (i) pay dividends or make distributions, (ii) pay indebtedness, (iii) make loans or advances or (iv) sell, lease or transfer property, in each case to us and our subsidiaries, or (B) incur liens; pay dividends, distributions and other payments in respect of capital stock or subordinated debt; repurchase or retire capital stock, warrants or options or subordinated debt; and amend the terms of documents governing, or make payments prior to the scheduled maturity of, certain other indebtedness.. As a result of these restrictions, each of which is subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these existing covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants.. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as other terms of our indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date.  If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or cannot refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected."
