[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We are exposed to significant financial and capital risk, including changing interest rates and credit spreads which may have an adverse effect on sales of our products, profitability, investment portfolio and reported book value per share.. Future changes in interest rates and credit spreads may result in fluctuations in the income derived from our investments.  These and other factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Interest rate and credit spread risk.  Our interest rate risk is related to market price and changes in cash flow.  Substantial and sustained increases and decreases in market interest rates can adversely affect the profitability of our products, our ability to earn predictable returns, the fair value of our investments and the reported value of stockholders' equity.  A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will decrease the unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio and may result in an unrealized loss position.  With respect to our available for sale fixed maturity securities, such declines in value (net of income taxes and certain adjustments for assumed changes in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements) reduce our reported stockholders' equity and book value per share.. If interest rates rise dramatically within a short period of time, our business may be exposed to disintermediation risk.  Disintermediation risk is the risk that our policyholders may surrender all or part of their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, which may require us to sell assets in an unrealized loss position.  Alternatively, we may increase crediting rates to retain business and reduce the level of assets that may need to be sold at a loss.  However, such action would reduce our investment spread and net income.. Due to the long-term nature of our annuity liabilities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may result in increased redemptions of our fixed maturity securities that are subject to call redemption prior to maturity by the issuer or prepayments of commercial mortgage loans and expose us to reinvestment risk.  If we are unable to reinvest the proceeds from such redemptions into investments with credit quality and yield characteristics of the redeemed or prepaid investments, our net income and overall financial performance may be adversely affected.  We have a certain ability to mitigate this risk by lowering crediting rates on our products subject to certain restrictions as discussed below.. Our exposure to credit spreads is related to market price and changes in cash flows related to changes in credit spreads.  If credit spreads widen significantly it could result in greater investment income on new investments but would also indicate growing concern about the ability of credit issuers to service their debt which could result in additional other than temporary impairments.  If credit spreads tighten significantly it could result in reduced net investment income from new purchases of fixed maturity securities or fundings of commercial mortgage loans.. Credit risk.  We are subject to the risk that the issuers of our fixed maturity securities and other debt securities and borrowers on our commercial mortgages, will default on principal and interest payments, particularly if a major downturn in economic activity occurs.  An increase in defaults on our fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolios could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. 8. Table of Contents. Credit and cash flow assumption risk is the risk that issuers of securities, mortgagees on mortgage loans or other parties, including derivatives counterparties, default on their contractual obligations or experience adverse changes to their contractual cash flow streams.  We attempt to minimize the adverse impact of this risk by monitoring portfolio diversification and exposure by asset class, creditor, industry, and by complying with investment limitations governed by state insurance laws and regulations as applicable.  We also consider all relevant objective information available in estimating the cash flows related to residential and commercial mortgage backed securities.. We use derivative instruments to fund the annual credits on our fixed index annuities.  We purchase derivative instruments, consisting primarily of one-year call options, from a number of counterparties.  Our policy is to acquire such options only from counterparties rated \"A-\"or better by a nationally recognized rating agency and the maximum credit exposure to any single counterparty is subject to concentration limits.  In addition, we have entered into credit support agreements with our counterparties which allow us to require our counterparties to post collateral to secure their obligations to us under the derivative instruments.  If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our revenues may not be sufficient to fund the annual index credits on our fixed index annuities.  Any such failure could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. Liquidity risk.  We could have difficulty selling certain investments such as privately placed securities and mortgage loans because they are less liquid than our publicly traded securities.  If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these securities and loans at attractive prices or in a timely manner, or both.. Fluctuations in interest rates and investment spread could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A key component of our net income is the investment spread.  A narrowing of investment spreads may adversely affect operating results.  Although we have the right to adjust interest crediting rates (cap, participation or asset fee rates for fixed index annuities) on most products, changes to crediting rates may not be sufficient to maintain targeted investment spreads in all economic and market environments.  In general, our ability to lower crediting rates is subject to minimum crediting rates filed with and approved by state regulators.  In addition, competition and other factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid the narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions.  Our policy structure generally provides for resetting of policy crediting rates at least annually and imposes withdrawal penalties for withdrawals during the first 5 to 17 years a policy is in force.. We manage the index-based risk component of our fixed index annuities by purchasing call options on the applicable indices to fund the annual index credits on these annuities and by adjusting the caps, participation rates and asset fees on policy anniversary dates to reflect changes in the cost of such options which varies based on market conditions.  The price of such options generally increases with increases in the volatility in both the indices and interest rates, which may either narrow the spread or cause us to lower caps or participation rates.  Thus, the volatility of the cost of the indices adds an additional degree of uncertainty to the profitability of the index products.  We attempt to mitigate this risk by resetting caps, participation rates and asset fees annually on the policy anniversaries.. Persistent environment of low interest rates affects and may continue to negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Prolonged periods of low interest rates may have a negative impact on our ability to sell our fixed index annuities as consumers look for other financial instruments with potentially higher returns to fund retirement.  In times of low interest rates, such as we have been experiencing since 2010 and which we may continue to experience in 2018, it is difficult to offer attractive rates and benefits to customers while maintaining profitability, which may limit sales growth of interest sensitive products.. Sustained declines in interest rates may subject us to lower returns on our invested assets, and we have had to and may have to continue to invest the cash we receive from premiums and interest or return of principal on our investments in instruments with yields less than those we currently own.  This may reduce our future net investment income and compress the spread on our annuity products.  Further, borrowers may prepay fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans in order to borrow at lower market rates.  Any related prepayment fees are recorded in net investment income and may create income statement volatility.. An environment of rising interest rates may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Periods of rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders and withdrawals as policyholders seek financial instruments with higher returns, commonly referred to as disintermediation.  This may lead to net cash outflows and the resulting liquidity demands may require us to sell investment assets when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.  Further, a portion of our investment portfolio consists of commercial mortgage loans and privately placed securities, which are relatively illiquid, thus increasing our liquidity risk in the event of disintermediation.  We may also be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements related to surrendered contracts, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. During such times, we may offer higher crediting rates on new sales of annuity products and increase crediting rates on existing annuity products to maintain or enhance product competitiveness.  We may not be able to purchase enough higher yielding assets necessary to fund higher crediting rates and maintain our desired spread, which could result in lower profitability on our business.  Alternatively, if we seek to maintain profitability of our products in rising interest rate environments it may be difficult to position our products to offer attractive rates and benefits to customers which may limit sales growth of interest sensitive products.. 9. Table of Contents. Our valuation of fixed maturity securities may include methodologies, estimates and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Fixed maturity securities are reported at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets.  During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable.  Prices provided by independent pricing services or independent broker quotes that are used in the determination of fair value can vary significantly for a particular security.  There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment.  As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater judgment as well as valuation methods that require greater judgment.  Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit conditions could negatively impact the valuation of securities as reported in our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.  Decreases in value may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Defaults on commercial mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Commercial mortgage loans have the potential to face heightened delinquency and default risk depending on economic conditions which could have a negative impact on the performance of the underlying collateral, resulting in declining values and an adverse impact on the obligors of such instruments.  An increase in the default rate of our commercial mortgage loan investments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the carrying value of commercial mortgage loans is negatively impacted by such factors.  The carrying value of commercial mortgage loans is stated as outstanding principal less any loan loss allowances recognized.  Considerations in determining allowances include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) declining debt service coverage ratios and increasing loan to value ratios; (ii) bankruptcy filings of major tenants or affiliates of the borrower on the property; (iii) catastrophic events at the property; and (iv) other subjective events or factors, including whether the terms of the debt will be restructured.  There can be no assurance that management's assessment of loan loss allowances on commercial mortgage loans will not change in future periods, which could lead to investment losses.. Conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets and economies could deteriorate in the near future and affect our financial position and our level of earnings from our operations.. Despite modest economic improvement in 2017, the U.S. government remains accommodative in policy to support the economic expansion, however signs have developed that indicate the Federal Reserve may need to raise short-term rates to maintain inflation within their target range. In addition, the U.S. government remains accommodative in regard to its security purchases program, reinvesting principal payments from its investment portfolio. While these strategies appear to be successful, any future economic downturn or market disruption could negatively impact our ability to invest funds. Specifically, if market conditions deteriorate in 2018 or beyond:. • our investment portfolio could incur additional other than temporary impairments;. • our commercial mortgage loans could experience a greater amount of loss;. • due to potential downgrades in our investment portfolio, we could be required to raise additional capital to sustain our current business in force and new sales of our annuity products, which may be difficult in a distressed market.  If capital would be available, it may be at terms that are not favorable to us;. • we may be required to limit growth in sales of our annuity products; and/or. • our liquidity could be negatively affected and we could be forced to limit our operations and our business could suffer, as we need liquidity to pay our policyholder benefits, operating expenses, dividends on our capital stock, and to service our debt obligations.. The principal sources of our liquidity are annuity deposits, investment income and proceeds from the sale, maturity and call of investments.  Sources of additional capital in normal markets include the issuance by us of short and long-term instruments, including equity, debt or other types of securities.. We face competition from companies that have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products and higher ratings, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength.. We operate in a highly competitive industry.  Many of our competitors are substantially larger and enjoy substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships.  Our annuity products compete with fixed index, fixed rate and variable annuities sold by other insurance companies and also with mutual fund products, traditional bank products and other retirement funding alternatives offered by asset managers, banks and broker/dealers.  Our insurance products compete with those of other insurance companies, financial intermediaries and other institutions based on a number of factors, including premium rates, policy terms and conditions, service provided to distribution channels and policyholders, ratings by rating agencies, reputation and distributor compensation.. 10. Table of Contents. While we compete with numerous other companies, we view the following as our most significant competitors:. • AIG Companies;. • Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America;. • Athene USA Corp;. • Great American Life Insurance Company;. • Midland National Life Insurance Company;. • Nationwide; and. • Security Benefit Life.. Our ability to compete depends in part on returns and other benefits we make available to our policyholders through our annuity contracts.  We will not be able to accumulate and retain assets under management for our products if our investment results underperform the market or the competition, since such underperformance likely would result in lower rates to policyholders which could lead to withdrawals and reduced sales.. Our ability to compete also depends on financial strength ratings we receive from rating agencies. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for a ratings downgrade, could have a number of adverse effects on our business.  For example, distributors and sales agents for life insurance and annuity products use the ratings as one factor in determining which insurer's annuities to market.  A ratings downgrade could cause those distributors and agents to seek alternative carriers.. We compete for distribution sources for our products.  We believe that our success in competing for distributors depends on our financial strength, the services we provide to and the relationships we develop with these distributors, as well as offering competitive commission structures.  Our distributors are generally free to sell products from whichever providers they wish, which makes it important for us to continually offer distributors products and services they find attractive.  If our products or services fall short of distributors' needs, we may not be able to establish and maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors of our products.  Our ability to compete in the past has also depended in part on our ability to develop innovative new products and bring them to market more quickly than our competitors.  In order for us to compete in the future, we will need to continue to bring innovative products to market in a timely fashion.  Otherwise, our revenues and profitability could suffer.. Our reinsurance program involves risks because we remain liable with respect to the liabilities ceded to reinsurers if the reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed by them.. Our life insurance subsidiaries cede certain policies to other insurance companies through reinsurance agreements.  American Equity Life has three coinsurance agreements with Athene covering $4.2 billion of policy benefit reserves at December 31, 2017 and two coinsurance agreements with EquiTrust covering $0.6 billion of policy benefit reserves at December 31, 2017. Since Athene is an unauthorized reinsurer, the annuity deposits ceded to Athene are held in trusts and American Equity Life is named as the sole beneficiary of the trusts.  The assets in the trusts are required to remain at a value that is sufficient to support the current balance of policy benefit liabilities of the ceded business on a statutory basis.  If the value of the assets in the trusts would ever be less than the amount of the ceded policy benefit liabilities on a statutory basis, Athene is required to either establish a letter of credit or deposit securities in the trusts for the amount of any shortfall.  We remain liable with respect to the policy liabilities ceded to EquiTrust and Athene should either fail to meet the obligations assumed by them.. In addition, we have entered into other types of reinsurance contracts including financing arrangements.  Should any of these reinsurers fail to meet the obligations assumed under such contracts, we remain liable with respect to the statutory liabilities ceded.. Any disruption in our ability to maintain our reinsurance program may hinder our ability to manage our regulatory capital.. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available.  If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to accept an increase in our net liability exposure or a decrease in our statutory surplus, reduce the amount of business we write or develop other alternatives to reinsurance.. 11. Table of Contents. We may experience volatility in net income due to the application of fair value accounting to our derivative instruments.. All of our derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, are recognized in the balance sheet at their fair values and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings.  This impacts certain revenues and expenses we report for our fixed index annuity business as follows:. • We must present the call options purchased to fund the annual index credits on our fixed index annuity products at fair value.  The fair value of the call options is based upon the amount of cash that would be required to settle the call options obtained from the counterparties adjusted for the nonperformance risk of the counterparty.  We record the change in fair value of these options as a component of our revenues.  The change in fair value of derivatives includes the gains or losses recognized at expiration of the option term or upon early termination and changes in fair value for open positions.. • The contractual obligations for future annual index credits are treated as a \"series of embedded derivatives\" over the expected life of the applicable contracts.  Increases or decreases in the fair value of embedded derivatives generally correspond to increases or decreases in equity market performance and changes in the interest rates used to discount the excess of the projected policy contract values over the projected minimum guaranteed contract values.  We record the change in fair value of these embedded derivatives as a component of our benefits and expenses in our consolidated statements of operations.. The application of fair value accounting for derivatives and embedded derivatives in future periods to our fixed index annuity business may cause substantial volatility in our reported net income.. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on the accuracy of management assumptions and estimates.. Assumptions and estimates are made regarding expenses and interest rates, tax liability, contingent liabilities, investment performance and other factors related to our business and anticipated results.  We rely on these assumptions and estimates when determining period end accruals, future earnings and various components of our consolidated balance sheet.  All assumptions and estimates utilized incorporate many factors, none of which can be predicted with certainty.  Our actual experiences, as well as changes in estimates, are used to prepare our consolidated statement of operations.  To the extent our actual experience and changes in estimates differ from original estimates, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The calculations we use to estimate various components of our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations are necessarily complex and involve analyzing and interpreting large quantities of data.  The assumptions and estimates required for these calculations involve judgment and by their nature are imprecise and subject to changes and revisions over time.  Accordingly, our results may be adversely affected from time to time by actual results differing from assumptions, by changes in estimates and by changes resulting from implementing more sophisticated administrative systems and procedures that facilitate the calculation of more precise estimates.. We may face unanticipated losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the probabilities that our annuity contracts will remain in force from one period to the next and our assumptions regarding policyholders' utilization of lifetime income benefit riders.. The expected profitability of our annuity products is based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and benefits using a number of assumptions, including those related to the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force, or persistency, and mortality.  Since no insurer can precisely determine persistency or mortality, actual results could differ significantly from assumptions, and deviations from estimates and assumptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  For example, actual persistency that is lower than our assumptions could have an adverse impact on future profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy.. In addition, we set initial crediting rates for our annuity products based upon expected benefit payments using assumptions for, among other factors, mortality rates of our policyholders.  The long-term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions.  For example, if mortality rates are lower than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make more payments under certain annuity contracts in addition to what we had projected.. In determining the liability from period to period of our lifetime income benefit riders, we must make significant assumptions such as expected index credits, the age when a policyholder may begin to utilize the rider and the number of policyholders that may not utilize the rider at all.  Changes in these assumptions can be significant.  Our experience regarding policyholder activity is limited as we began issuing policies with this rider in 2007.  Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from time to time by actual index credits being different than expected, actual policyholder behavior varying from what we have assumed in determining the liability associated with these riders and by changes in estimates based on this policyholder behavior.. If our estimated gross profits decrease significantly from initial expectations we may be required to expense our deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred sales inducements in an accelerated manner, which would reduce our profitability.. Deferred policy acquisition costs are costs that vary with and primarily relate to the successful acquisition of new business.  Deferred sales inducements are contract enhancements such as first-year premium and interest bonuses that are credited to policyholder account balances.  These costs are capitalized when incurred and are amortized over the life of the contracts.  Current amortization of these costs is generally in proportion to expected gross profits from interest margins and, to a lesser extent, from surrender charges and rider fees.  Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality or withdrawals may cause acceleration of the amortization of these costs resulting in an increase of expenses and lower profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be adversely affected; our historical growth rates may not be indicative of our future growth.. We have experienced rapid growth since our formation in December 1995.  We intend to continue to grow and further growth will impose significant added responsibilities on our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees, including management.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding our business or that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations as they expand.  In addition, due to our rapid growth and resulting increased size, it may be necessary to expand the scope of our investing activities to asset classes in which we historically have not invested or have not had significant exposure.  If we are unable to adequately manage our investments in these classes, our financial condition or operating results in the future could be less favorable than in the past.  Further, we have utilized reinsurance in the past to support our growth.  The future availability and cost of reinsurance is uncertain.  Our failure to manage growth effectively, or our inability to recruit, maintain and integrate additional qualified employees and independent agents, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, our historical growth rates are not likely to accurately reflect our future growth rates or our growth potential.  We cannot assure you that our future revenues will increase or that we will continue to be profitable.. Our operations support complex transactions and are highly dependent on the proper functioning of information technology and communication systems.  Any failure of our information technology or communications systems may result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and corporate reputation.. While systems and processes are designed to support complex transactions and avoid systems failure, fraud, information security failures, processing errors and breaches of regulation, any failure could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, we must commit significant resources to maintain and enhance our existing systems in order to keep pace with industry standards and customer preferences.  If we fail to keep up-to-date information systems, we may not be able to rely on information for product pricing, risk management and underwriting decisions.  In addition, even though backup and recovery systems and contingency plans are in place, we cannot assure investors that interruptions, failures or breaches in security of these processes and systems will not occur, or if they do occur, that they can be remediated promptly.  The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. An information technology failure or security breach may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We use information technology (\"IT\") to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information.  Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access IT systems to perform necessary business functions such as providing customer support, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, managing our investment portfolios and producing financial statements.  While we maintain comprehensive policies, procedures, automation and backup plans, and a broad range of information security technical and human controls designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, all IT systems are vulnerable to disruptions or data breaches as the result of natural or man-made disasters, criminal activity, pandemics or other events beyond an organization's control.  The failure of our IT for any of these reasons could disrupt our operations, cause reputational harm resulting in the loss of customers, or otherwise negatively impact our business operations and financial condition.. We retain confidential information within our IT, and we rely on sophisticated commercial control technologies to maintain the security of those systems.  Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our IT could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information contained with the accessed systems, including personally identifiable policyholder information and proprietary business information.  The NAIC has adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law which established the standards for data security and investigation and notification of a breach of data security for insurance companies, and an increasing number of states require that affected persons be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personally identifiable information.  Any compromise of the security of our computer systems that results in the inappropriate disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.  While there have been attempts to penetrate our IT security defenses, there is no evidence that any the attacks have been successful or that an IT breach has occurred.. If we are unable to attract and retain national marketing organizations, independent agents, broker/dealers, banks and registered investment advisors, sales of our products may be reduced.. We must attract and retain marketing organizations and distributors, including agents to sell our products.  Insurance companies compete vigorously for productive agents.  We compete with other life insurance companies for marketers and agents primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features.  Such marketers and agents may promote products offered by other life insurance companies that may offer a larger variety of products than we do.  Our competitiveness for such marketers and agents also depends upon the long-term relationships we develop with them.  We are developing a network of broker/dealers, banks and registered investment advisors to distribute our products.  If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient marketers, agents, broker/dealers, banks and registered investment advisors to sell our products, our ability to compete and our sales would suffer.. 13. Table of Contents. We may require additional capital to support our business and sustain future growth which may not be available when needed or may be available only on unfavorable terms.. Our long-term strategic capital requirements will depend on many factors including the accumulated statutory earnings of our life insurance subsidiaries and the relationship between the statutory capital and surplus of our life insurance subsidiaries and various elements of required capital.  For the purpose of supporting long-term capital requirements, we may need to increase or maintain the statutory capital and surplus of our life insurance subsidiaries through additional financings, which could include debt, equity, financing arrangements and/or other surplus relief transactions.  Adverse market conditions have affected and continue to affect the availability and cost of capital.  Such financings, if available at all, may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us.  If we cannot maintain adequate capital, we may be required to limit growth in sales of new annuity products, and such action could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in state and federal regulation may affect our profitability.. We are subject to regulation under applicable insurance statutes, including insurance holding company statutes, in the various states in which our life insurance subsidiaries transact business.  Our life insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in Iowa and New York.  We are currently licensed to sell our products in 50 states and the District of Columbia.  Insurance regulation is intended to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect shareholders of insurance companies or their holding companies.  As increased scrutiny has been placed upon the insurance regulatory framework, a number of state legislatures have considered or enacted legislative proposals that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance companies and holding company systems.. Regulators oversee matters relating to trade practices, policy forms, claims practices, guaranty funds, types and amounts of investments, reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, minimum amounts of capital and surplus, transactions with related parties, changes in control and payment of dividends.. The NAIC and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations.  The NAIC may develop and recommend adoption of new or modify existing Model Laws and Regulations. State insurance regulators may impose those recommended changes, or others, in the future.. Our life insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance regulations based on the NAIC's risk-based capital requirements which are intended to be used by insurance regulators as an early warning tool to identify deteriorating or weakly capitalized insurance companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action.  Our life insurance subsidiaries also may be required, under solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which they do business, to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities for insolvent insurance companies.. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including pension regulation, age and sex discrimination, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation, can significantly affect the insurance business.  In addition, legislation has been enacted which could result in the federal government assuming some role in the regulation of the insurance industry.. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted and signed into law.  The Dodd-Frank Act made extensive changes to the laws regulating the financial services industry and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations.  Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a comprehensive new regulatory regime on the over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives marketplace.  It also requires central clearing for certain derivatives transactions that the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") determines must be cleared and are accepted for clearing by a \"derivatives clearing organization\" (subject to certain exceptions) and provides the CFTC with authority to impose position limits across markets.  The Dodd-Frank Act and any such regulations may subject us to additional restrictions on our hedging positions which may have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business, including our fixed index annuity business, or on the cost of our hedging activity.. The Dodd-Frank Act also created Financial Stability Oversight Council (\"FSOC\").  The FSOC may designate whether certain insurance companies and insurance holding companies pose a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States, in which case such companies would become subject to prudential regulation by the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve.  The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. It is not possible at this time to assess the impact on our business of the establishment of the Federal Insurance Office and the FSOC.  However, the regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving.  The changing regulatory framework could affect the design of such products and our ability to sell certain products.  Any changes in these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. On April 6, 2016, the DOL released a final regulation which substantially expands the range of activities that will be considered to be fiduciary advice under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  As released, the final regulation provided for a phased implementation beginning April 10, 2017, with full implementation by January 1, 2018.  On April 7, 2017, the DOL issued a final rule delaying the applicability date of the regulation and related exemptions.  The new definition of fiduciary and the impartial conduct standards became effective on June 9, 2017.  Following the issuance of an additional final rule on November 29, 2017, compliance with the remaining conditions and related exemptions is not required until July 1, 2019.  Insurance agents are permitted to rely on Prohibited Transaction Exemption 84-24 until July 1, 2019 for all annuity sales.  Additionally, the DOL issued a temporary enforcement policy covering the transition period between June 9, 2017 and July 1, 2019, during which the DOL will not pursue claims against advisers who are working diligently and in good faith to comply with their fiduciary duties and the conditions of the prohibited transaction exemptions.  Additional changes to the regulation's requirement are possible prior to full implementation on July 1, 2019.. 14. Table of Contents. Lawsuits are pending challenging the regulation and efforts continue to delay, repeal or revise the regulation.  The success of efforts to overturn, delay, repeal or revise the regulation cannot be predicted.  We believe it could negatively impact our business and have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to individual retirement account (\"IRA\") holders, particularly fixed index annuity products sold in the independent insurance agent distribution channel.  A significant portion of our annuity sales are to IRAs.  The new regulation deems advisors, including independent insurance agents, who sell fixed index annuities to IRAs, IRA rollovers or 401(k) plans fiduciaries and prohibits them from receiving compensation unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption.. Although the precise impact of the regulation is difficult to assess, compliance with the prohibited transaction exemptions will likely result in increased regulatory burdens, decreases in sales, changes to our compensation practices and product offerings and increased litigation risk, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to our insurance products is evolving.  The changing regulatory framework could affect the design of such products and our ability or the ability of our agents to sell certain products.  Any changes in these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in federal income taxation laws, including any reduction in individual income tax rates, may affect sales of our products and profitability.. The annuity and life insurance products that we market generally provide the policyholder with certain federal income tax advantages.  For example, federal income taxation on any increases in non-qualified annuity contract values (i.e., the \"inside build-up\") is deferred until it is received by the policyholder.  With other savings instruments, such as certificates of deposit and taxable bonds, the increase in value is generally taxed each year as it is realized.  Decreases in individual income tax rates would decrease the advantage of deferring the inside build-up.. From time to time, various tax law changes have been proposed that could have an adverse effect on our business, including the elimination of all or a portion of the income tax advantages described above for annuities and life insurance.  If legislation were enacted to eliminate all or a portion of the tax deferral for annuities, such a change would have an adverse effect on our ability to sell non-qualified annuities.  Non-qualified annuities are annuities that are not sold to a qualified retirement plan.. We face risks relating to litigation and regulatory examination, including the costs of such litigation or examination, management distraction and the potential for damage awards, fines, penalties or other required remediation, which may adversely impact our business.. We are occasionally involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff.  In addition, state regulatory bodies, such as state insurance departments, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (\"FINRA\"), the Department of Labor and other regulatory bodies regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations concerning our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws, securities laws, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and laws governing the activities of broker/dealers.  Companies in the life insurance and annuity business have faced litigation, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper product design, improper sales practices and similar claims.. A downgrade in our credit or financial strength ratings may increase our cost of capital, reduce new sales, adversely affect relationships with distributors and increase policy surrenders and withdrawals.. Currently, our senior unsecured indebtedness carries a \"BBB-\" rating with a stable outlook from Standard & Poor's, a BB+ rating with a stable outlook from Fitch Ratings, and a \"bbb-\" rating with a stable outlook from A.M. Best Company.  Our ability to maintain such ratings is dependent upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries and our financial strength.  If we fail to preserve the strength of our balance sheet and to maintain a capital structure that rating agencies deem suitable, it could result in a downgrade of the ratings applicable to our senior unsecured indebtedness.  A downgrade would likely reduce the fair value of the common stock and may increase our cost of capital.. Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of life insurance and annuity companies.  In recent years, the market for annuities has been dominated by those insurers with the highest ratings.  A ratings downgrade, or the potential for a ratings downgrade, could have a number of adverse effects on our business.  For example, distributors and sales agents for life insurance and annuity products use the ratings as one factor in determining which insurer's annuities to market.  A ratings downgrade could cause those distributors and agents to seek alternative carriers.  In addition, a ratings downgrade could increase the number of policy or contract surrenders we experience, as well as our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance.. Financial strength ratings are measures of an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations and generally involve quantitative and qualitative evaluations by rating agencies of a company's financial condition and operating performance.  Generally, rating agencies base their ratings upon information furnished to them by the insurer and upon their own investigations, studies and assumptions.  Ratings are based upon factors of concern to agents, policyholders and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities."
