[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Company's Business. The Company's business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates and inadequate management of interest rate risk may negatively affect financial performance.. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company's profits.  It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the spread between the interest earned on loans, securities, and other interest earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities.  Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities.  In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and the current interest rate environment encourages extreme competition for new loan originations from qualified borrowers.  Management cannot ensure that it can minimize the Company's interest rate risk. While an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase the loan yield and the net interest margin, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest and principal of their obligations.  In addition, rising interest rates may result in the Company's interest expense increasing, with a commensurate adverse effect on net interest income, particularly if the Company must pay interest on demand deposits to attract or retain customer accounts. As interest rates increase, deposit costs will continue to increase, which could adversely impact the Company's net interest income. In a rising rate environment, competition for cost-effective deposits can be expected to increase, making it more costly for the Company to fund loan growth.  Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, and overall profitability of the Company.. 14. The Company faces strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking and other financial services, which could negatively affect the Company's business.. The Company encounters substantial competition from other financial institutions in its market area.  Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that the Company offers.  These competitors include national, regional, and community banks.  The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings banks, finance companies, mutual and money market fund providers, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, financial subsidiaries of certain industrial corporations, and mortgage companies.  In particular, competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition may result in reduced business for the Company.. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers.  These institutions also may have differing pricing and underwriting standards, which may adversely affect the Company through the loss of business or causing a misalignment in the Company's risk-return relationship.  Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loans and deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services.  Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services.  If the Company is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue to grow loan and deposit portfolios and its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Changes in economic conditions could materially and negatively affect the Company's business.. The Company's business is directly impacted by economic, political, and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company's control.  A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by global, national or local events, especially within the Company's market area, could result in potentially negative material consequences such as the following, among others: loan delinquencies increasing; problem assets and foreclosures increasing; demand for products and services decreasing; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits decreasing; and collateral for loans, especially real estate, declining in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans.  Each of these consequences may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Trust division income is a major source of non-interest income for the Company.  Trust and Brokerage fee revenue is largely dependent on the fair market value of assets under management and on trading volumes in the brokerage business. General economic conditions and their subsequent effect on the securities markets tend to act in correlation.  When general economic conditions deteriorate, securities markets generally decline in value, and the Company's Trust and Brokerage fee revenue are negatively impacted as asset values and trading volumes decrease.. The Company's credit standards and its on-going credit assessment processes might not protect it from significant credit losses.. The Company takes credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit.  The Company manages credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended.  The Company's exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize local lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations.  The Company's credit administration function employs risk management techniques to help ensure that problem loans are promptly identified.  While these procedures are designed to provide the Company with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary and to take appropriate corrective actions, and have proven to be reasonably effective to date, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding future undue credit risk.. The Company's focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase its credit risk.. Most of the Company's commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle market customers.  These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions.  Additionally, these loans may increase concentration risk as to industry or collateral securing the loans.  If general economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company operates negatively impact this important customer sector, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be. 15. adversely affected.  Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by the Company in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle.  The deterioration of the borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties, and its financial condition could be adversely affected if it relies on misleading information.. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, the Company may rely on information furnished to it by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, which the Company does not independently verify.  The Company also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, the Company may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\") and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer.  The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent it relies on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading.. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, an allowance for loan losses is maintained to provide for loan losses.  The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect operating results.  The allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio.  The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other outside forces and conditions, including changes in interest rates, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and these losses may exceed current estimates.  Federal bank regulatory agencies, as a part of their examination process, review the Company's loans and allowance for loan losses.  While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, it cannot make assurances that it will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance.  Either of these occurrences could adversely affect earnings.. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's nonperforming assets adversely affect its net income in various ways.  The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, which adversely affects its income and increases credit administration costs.  When the Company receives collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may, and often does, result in a loss.  An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases the Company's risk profile and may impact the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks.  The Company utilizes various techniques such as workouts, restructurings and loan sales to manage problem assets.  Increases in or negative adjustments in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers' performance or financial condition, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities, including generation of new loans.  There can be no assurance that the Company will avoid increases in nonperforming loans in the future.. A downturn in the local real estate market could materially and negatively affect the Company's business.. The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity lines of credit, consumer and other loans. Many of these loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) located in the Company's market area. A downturn in the real estate market in the areas in which the Company conducts its operations could negatively affect the Company's business because significant portions of its loans are secured by real estate.  At December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion in loans, of which approximately $1.1 billion (80.8%) were secured by real estate.  The ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral could then be diminished and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses.. Substantially all of the Company's real property collateral is located in its market area.  If there is a decline in real estate values, especially in the Company's market area, the collateral for loans would deteriorate and provide significantly less security.. 16. The Company relies upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate which secures a significant portion of its loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if the Company is forced to foreclose upon such loans.. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. The Company relies upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of such real estate.  Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment which adversely affect the reliability of their appraisals. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to increase or decrease.  As a result of any of these factors, the real estate securing some of the Company's loans may be more or less valuable than anticipated at the time the loans were made.  If a default occurs on a loan secured by real estate that is less valuable than originally estimated, the Company may not be able to recover the outstanding balance of the loan and will suffer a loss.. The Company is dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect the Company's operations and prospects.. The Company is a relationship-driven organization.  A key aspect of the Company's business strategy is for its senior officers to have primary contact with current and potential customers.  The Company's growth and development is in large part a result of these personalized relationships with the customer base.  The success of the Company also often depends on its ability to hire and retain qualified banking officers.. The Company's senior officers have considerable experience in the banking industry and related financial services and are extremely valuable and would be difficult to replace.  The loss of the services of these officers could have a material adverse effect upon future prospects.  Although the Company has entered into employment contracts with certain of its senior executive officers, and purchased key man life insurance policies to mitigate the risk of an unforeseen departure or death of certain of the senior executive officers, it cannot offer any assurance that they and other key employees will remain employed by the Company.  The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on operations and possibly result in reduced revenues.. The inability of the Company to successfully manage its growth or implement its growth strategy may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may not be able to successfully implement its growth strategy if it is unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future.  In addition, the ability to manage growth successfully depends on whether the Company can maintain adequate capital levels, cost controls and asset quality, and successfully integrate any businesses acquired into the Company.. As the Company continues to implement its growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or banks, it expects to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses.  In the case of new branches, the Company must absorb those higher expenses while it begins to generate new deposits; there is also further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets.  The Company's plans to expand could depress earnings in the short run, even if it efficiently executes a branching strategy leading to long-term financial benefits.. Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company's own operations may prevent the Company from achieving the expected benefits from acquisitions.. The Company may not be able to achieve fully the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies expected in an acquisition.  Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired entity.  In addition, the markets and industries in which the Company and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive.  The Company may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition; the Company may lose key personnel, either from the acquired entity or from itself; and the Company may not be able to control the incremental increase in noninterest expense arising from an acquisition in a manner that improves its overall operating efficiencies.  These factors could contribute to the Company's not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all.  Future business acquisitions could be material to the Company and it may issue additional shares of common stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders' ownership interests.  Acquisitions also could require the Company to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt; the Company could therefore become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect its business.. The Company's operations as a publicly traded corporation, a bank holding company, and an insured depository institution are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and. 17. judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Company's operations.  Because the Company's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to it are subject to frequent and sometimes extensive change. Such changes could include higher capital requirements, increased insurance premiums, increased compliance costs, reductions of non-interest income and limitations on services that can be provided.  Actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Company could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defend itself and may lead to liability or penalties that materially affect the Company and its shareholders. Any future changes in the laws, rules or regulations applicable to the Company may negatively affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Recently enacted capital standards may have an adverse effect on the Company's profitability, lending, and ability to pay dividends on the Company's securities.. In July 2013, the FRB and the OCC released final rules which implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rules, minimum requirements for both the quality and quantity of capital held by banking organizations have increased. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that applies to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also, among other things, raised the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4% to 6% and included a minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations. The new rules became effective January 1, 2015. The potential impact of the new capital rules includes, but is not limited to, reduced lending and negative pressure on profitability and return on equity due to the higher capital requirements. To the extent the Company is required to increase capital in the future to comply with the new capital rules, its ability to pay dividends on its securities may be reduced.. In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as \"Basel IV\").  Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee's standardized approach for credit risk (including by recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain \"unconditionally cancellable commitments,\" such as unused credit card lines of credit) and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital.  Under the proposed framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing-in through January 1, 2027.  Under the current capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to the Company.  The impact of Basel IV on the Company and the Bank will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the federal bank regulatory agencies.. New regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could adversely the Company's earnings.. The CFPB has broad rule making authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB issued a final rule effective January 10, 2014, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate \"qualified mortgages\" that meet specific requirements with respect to terms, pricing and fees. The new rule also contains new disclosure requirements at mortgage loan origination and in monthly statements. These requirements could limit the Company's ability to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could adversely impact the Company's profitability.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. From time to time, with increasing frequency, there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements.  These changes can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  In some instances, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company.  If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its reputation and operating results would be harmed.  As part of the Company's ongoing monitoring of internal control, it may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control that require remediation.  A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. 18. The Company has in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of its internal controls that need improvement.  Even so, the Company is continuing to work to improve its internal controls.  The Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that it implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future.  Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely effect any necessary improvement of the Company's internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm the Company's reputation or cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. The carrying value of goodwill may be adversely impacted.. When the Company completes an acquisition, generally goodwill is recorded on the date of acquisition as an asset.  Current accounting guidance requires for goodwill to be tested for impairment, which the Company performs an impairment analysis at least annually, rather than amortizing it over a period of time.  A significant adverse change in expected future cash flows or sustained adverse change in the Company's common stock could require the asset to become impaired.  If impaired, the Company would incur a non-cash charge to earnings that would have a significant impact on the results of operations.  The carrying value of goodwill was approximately $43.9 million at December 31, 2017.. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to grow, but may be unable to obtain additional capital on favorable terms or at all.. Federal and state banking regulators and safe and sound banking practices require the Company to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations.  Although the Company currently has no specific plans for additional offices, its business strategy calls for it to continue to grow in its existing banking markets (internally and through additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. Continued growth in the Company's earning assets, which may result from internal expansion and new branch offices, at rates in excess of the rate at which its capital is increased through retained earnings, will reduce the Company's capital ratios. If the Company's capital ratios fell below \"well capitalized\" levels, the FDIC deposit insurance assessment rate would increase until capital was restored and maintained at a \"well capitalized\" level. A higher assessment rate would cause an increase in the assessments the Company pays for federal deposit insurance, which would have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results.. Management of the Company believes that its current and projected capital position is sufficient to maintain capital ratios significantly in excess of regulatory requirements for the next several years and allow the Company flexibility in the timing of any possible future efforts to raise additional capital.   However, if, in the future, the Company needs to increase its capital to fund additional growth or satisfy regulatory requirements, its ability to raise that additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, economic conditions, the Company's financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside its control.  There is no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to it or at all.  Any future inability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to the Company may have a material adverse effect on its ability to expand operations, and on its financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The Company relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company's business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of the Company's business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access.  While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions.  Any problem caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cybersecurity breaches, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business.  Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt the Company's operations if those difficulties interface with the vendor's ability to serve the Company.  Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense.  Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to the Company's business operations.. The Company's exposure to operational, technological and organizational risk may adversely affect the Company.. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputation, legal, and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, clerical or record-keeping errors, and errors resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community. 19. organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and retain customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action.. Certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transactions may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.  The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company's (or its vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.. The Company's operations may be adversely affected by cybersecurity risks.. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business.  Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's internet banking, deposit, loan, and other systems.  While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such failure, interruption, or security breach of the Company's information systems, there can be no assurance that they will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  Further, to access the Company's products and services, its customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond the Company's security control systems.  The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of the Company's communications and information systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability.  Additionally, the Company outsources its data processing to a third party. If the Company's third party provider encounters difficulties or if the Company has difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect the Company's ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect its business operations.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of its customers and employees in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to operations and the Company's business strategy. The Company has invested in accepted technologies, and annually reviews processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Company's computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. A breach of any kind could compromise systems and the information stored there could be accessed, damaged or disclosed. A breach in security could result in legal claims, regulatory penalties, disruption in operations, and damage to the Company's reputation, which could adversely affect the Company's business.  Furthermore, as cyberattacks continue to evolve and increase, the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance its protective measures, or to investigate and remediate any identified information security vulnerabilities.. Multiple major U.S. retailers, financial institutions, government agencies and departments have experienced data systems incursions reportedly resulting in the thefts of credit and debit card information, online account information, and other financial data of tens of millions of individuals and customers. Retailer incursions affect cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many financial institutions, including the Bank. Although neither the Company's nor the Bank's systems are breached in government or retailer incursions, these events can cause the Bank to reissue a significant number of cards and take other costly steps to avoid significant theft loss to the Bank and its customers.  In some cases, the Bank may be required to reimburse customers for the losses they incur. Other possible points of intrusion or disruption not within the Company's nor the Bank's control include internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (so called \"cloud\") service providers, electronic data security providers, personal computers and mobile phones, telecommunications companies, and mobile phone manufacturers.. The Company's risk-management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. The Company maintains an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor, report, and control the risks that it faces. These risks include, but are not limited to: strategic, interest-rate, credit, liquidity, operations, pricing, reputation, compliance, litigation and cybersecurity. While the Company assesses and improves this program on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its approach and framework for risk management and related controls will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in its business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in the Company's risk-management program, or if its controls break down, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 20. Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase the Company's costs and impact its reputation.. The Company is subject to a number of laws concerning consumer privacy and data use and security, including information safeguard rules under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These rules require that financial institutions develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution's size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution's activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The United States has experienced a heightened legislative and regulatory focus on privacy and data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach. In addition, most states have enacted security breach legislation requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of certain types of security breaches.  New regulations in these areas may increase the Company's compliance costs, which could negatively impact earnings. In addition, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations, overall business, and reputation.. Consumers may increasingly decide not to use the Bank to complete their financial transactions because of technological and other changes, which would have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as \"disintermediation,\" could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Negative perception of the Company through media may adversely affect the Company's reputation and business.. The Company's reputation is critical to the success of its business.  The Company believes that its brand image has been well received by customers, reflecting the fact that the brand image, like the Company's business, is based in part on trust and confidence. The Company's reputation and brand image could be negatively affected by rapid and widespread distribution of publicity through social and traditional media channels. The Company's reputation could also be affected by the Company's association with clients affected negatively through social and traditional media distribution, or other third parties, or by circumstances outside of the Company's control.  Negative publicity, whether true or untrue, could affect the Company's ability to attract or retain customers, or cause the Company to incur additional liabilities or costs, or result in additional regulatory scrutiny.. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the performance of the Company's fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of the Company's fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the federal, state or local tax laws may negatively impact the Company's financial performance.. Changes in tax law could increase the Company's effective tax rates. Such changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result could negatively affect the Company's current and future financial performance.  The Tax Reform Act, the full impact of which the Company is still analyzing, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on the Company's financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on the Company's earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions, such as the deduction of FDIC deposit insurance premiums, which will partially offset the anticipated increase in net earnings from the lower tax rate. In addition, as a result of the lower corporate tax rate, the Company revalued its ending net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2017 and recognized a provisional $2.7 million tax expense in the Company's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2017. The impact of the Tax Reform Act may differ from the foregoing, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations or in assumptions that the Company has made, guidance or regulations that may be promulgated, and other actions that the Company. 21. may take as a result of the Tax Reform Act. Similarly, the Company's customers are likely to experience varying effects from both the individual and business tax provisions of the Tax Reform Act and such effects, whether positive or negative, may have a corresponding impact on the Company's business and the economy as a whole.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company's business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business.  In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Company's  deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue, and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses.  The occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Company's Common Stock. While the Company's common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than stocks for larger companies quoted on a national securities exchange.. The trading volume in the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges.  There is no assurance that a more active and liquid trading market for the common stock will exist in the future.  Consequently, shareholders may not be able to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares.  In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of the Company's common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the common stock.. Economic and other conditions may cause volatility in the price of the Company's common stock.. In the current economic environment, the prices of publicly traded stocks in the financial services sector have been volatile.  However, even in a more stable economic environment the price of the Company's common stock can be affected by a variety of factors such as expected or actual results of operations, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, announcements of developments related to its businesses, operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, news or expectations based on the performance of others in the financial services industry, and expected impacts of a changing regulatory environment.  These factors not only impact the price of the Company's common stock but could also affect the liquidity of the stock given the Company's size, geographical footprint, and industry. The price for shares of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company's performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of the Company's common stock, and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices.. Future issuances of the Company's common stock could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could be dilutive.. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock.  Issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the expectation that such issuances might occur, including in connection with acquisitions by the Company, could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of the common stock and could be dilutive to shareholders.  Because the Company's decision to issue common stock in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors, it cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of possible future issuances of its common stock.  Accordingly, the Company's shareholders bear the risk that future issuances will reduce the market price of the common stock and dilute their stock holdings in the Company.. The primary source of the Company's income from which it pays cash dividends is the receipt of dividends from its subsidiary bank.. The availability of dividends from the Company is limited by various statutes and regulations.  It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OCC could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice.  In the event the Bank was unable to pay dividends to the Company, or be limited in the payment of such dividends, the Company would likely have to reduce or stop paying common stock dividends.  The Company's reduction, limitation or failure to pay such dividends on its common stock could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the common stock.. 22. The Company's governing documents and Virginia law contain anti-takeover provisions that could negatively impact its shareholders.. The Company's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and the Virginia Stock Corporation Act contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Company's Board of Directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Company.  These provisions and the ability to set the voting rights, preferences and other terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may discourage takeovers (which certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interest).  To the extent that such takeover attempts are discouraged, temporary fluctuations in the market price of the Company's common stock resulting from actual or rumored takeover attempts may be inhibited.  These provisions also could discourage or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest, even though such transactions may be favorable to the interests of shareholders, and could potentially adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock."
