[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. We urge you to carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report in evaluating an investment in our common units.. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in us.. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial individually or in the aggregate may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks and uncertainties faced by us described below.. Risks Related to our Business. Our current and future indebtedness levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.2 billion in principal amount of debt outstanding (including approximately $697.9 million of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility). Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness;. • our indebtedness level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Any of these factors could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, business prospects and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions to our unitholders, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls for 2017 and have been unable to remediate the material weakness identified in 2016. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or otherwise fail to develop, implement and maintain appropriate internal controls in future periods, our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis could be adversely affected.. At December 31, 2016, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls over the level of accounting knowledge, expertise and training commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. This material weakness was not remediated at December 31, 2017.  At December 31, 2017, we did not maintain an effective control environment as we lacked sufficient oversight of activities related to our internal control over financial reporting and had an insufficient complement of resources with an. 26. appropriate level of accounting knowledge, expertise and training commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. This material weakness contributed to additional material weaknesses, as the Partnership did not design and maintain effective controls over: verifying that complex, non-routine transactions were recorded appropriately; all financial statement assertions of revenues and receivables, specifically the review of the accounting for certain contracts, the review that price, volume and other key contractual terms used to record revenue are consistent with the terms of the arrangement and the review that revenue is recorded in the proper period; all financial statement assertions related to acquisitions and divestitures, specifically verifying the existence, rights and obligations associated with assets acquired and liabilities assumed, reviewing the valuation of the purchase price allocation and reviewing the completeness and accuracy of related disclosures; the period-end financial reporting process, specifically the review of account reconciliations and financial statement analyses to support the completeness and accuracy of the consolidated financial statements and disclosures; and the accuracy and valuation of asset retirement obligations, goodwill, other intangible assets and finite-lived assets, specifically the review of the model, data, assumptions and calculations used in determining the estimated asset retirement obligation and in impairment tests, and the related identification of changes in events and circumstances that indicate it is more likely than not that an impairment indicator has occurred. Additionally, we did not maintain effective controls over certain information technology (\"IT\") general controls for a significant application used in the preparation of our financial statements. Specifically, we did not maintain user access controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and adequate restriction of user and privileged access to the financial application, programs, and data to appropriate Partnership personnel. These IT deficiencies did not result in a material misstatement to the financial statements, however, the deficiencies, when aggregated, could impact our ability to maintain effective segregation of duties, as well as maintain effective IT-dependent controls which could result in misstatements of substantially all of the financial statement accounts and disclosures resulting in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that otherwise would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management determined that, as of December 31, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. The specific material weaknesses and our remediation efforts are described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We were not able to remediate material weaknesses identified at December 31, 2016 during 2017, and we cannot assure you that we will adequately remediate the material weaknesses or that additional material weaknesses in our internal controls will not be identified in the future.. We are in the process of remediating the identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, but we are unable at this time to estimate when the remediation effort will be completed. During the course of implementing additional processes and controls, as well as controls operating effectiveness testing, we may identify additional control deficiencies, which could give rise to other material weaknesses, in addition to the material weaknesses described above. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address these material weaknesses or modify certain of the remediation measures. Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of resources to comply with applicable requirements.. The indenture governing our senior notes and our credit facility contain certain financial covenants and ratios and other restrictions. We may have difficulty maintaining compliance with such financial covenants and ratios and other restrictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.. We are dependent upon certain earnings and cash flow generated by our operations in order to meet our debt service obligations. We also depend on our credit facility for working capital and future expansion capital needs and, as necessary, to fund a portion of cash distributions to unitholders. The indenture governing the notes and our revolving credit facility contain, and any future financing agreements may contain, operating and financial restrictions and covenants that could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. For example, our revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • redeem or repay other debt or make other restricted payments;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • merge or consolidate with another company;. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries;. • cancel or modify material contracts;. 27. Our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") contains certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated total leverage ratio that requires our indebtedness not to exceed 5.00 times adjusted consolidated EBITDA (except during a specified acquisition period, as determined under the terms of the Credit Agreement, at which time such ratio is increased to 5.50 times adjusted consolidated EBITDA), (ii) a consolidated secured leverage ratio that requires our secured indebtedness not to exceed 3.50 times adjusted consolidated EBITDA, and (iii) a minimum interest coverage ratio that requires our adjusted consolidated EBITDA to exceed consolidated interest charges by not less than 2.50 times. The financial covenants in our Credit Agreement may limit the amount available to us for borrowing to less than $900.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated total leverage ratio was 5.23, our secured leverage ratio was 3.29 and our interest coverage ratio was 3.62, which were in compliance with the financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants and ratios in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control, including events and circumstances that may stem from the condition of the financial markets and commodity price levels.. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay distributions to holders of our common units.. We may not have sufficient available cash from operations each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4125 per common unit or at all. These distributions may only be made from cash available for distribution after the preferred quarterly distribution to which our convertible preferred units are entitled, the establishment of cash reserves, and payment of our fees and expenses. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the volume of natural gas we and our joint ventures gather, process and transport, and related revenues earned under our and our joint ventures' transportation contracts;. • the level of production of crude oil and natural gas and the resultant market prices of crude oil and natural gas and NGLs;. • realized pricing impacts on our revenue and expenses that are directly subject to commodity price exposure;. • capacity charges and volumetric fees associated with our transportation services;. • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies in our geographic markets;. • the level of our operating, maintenance and corporate costs; and. • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, natural gas, the transportation rates we can charge on our regulated pipelines, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, our operating costs and our operating flexibility.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions, and the resulting costs of integrations, if any;. • our debt service payments and requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. There is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from us. Our distributions are determined each quarter by the Board of Directors of our General Partner based on the board's consideration of the foregoing factors, our financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other relevant factors at that time. We may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time we have insufficient cash available for distributions. This may be due to insufficient cash reserves, requirements to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial reporting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial reporting purposes.. Any decrease in the volumes of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil that we or our joint ventures gather, process or transport could adversely affect our business and operating results.. 28. The volumes that support our business are dependent on the level of production from natural gas and crude oil wells connected to our systems, including volumes from significant customers, the production of which will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our systems, we must obtain new sources of natural gas and crude oil. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain non-dedicated sources of natural gas and crude oil include (i) the level of successful drilling activity in our areas of operation and (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells.. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems or the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling or production, which are affected by, among other things:. • prevailing and projected natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices;. • the availability and cost of capital;. • demand for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs;. • levels of reserves;. • geological considerations;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits;. • the absence of operational issues that curtail production; and. • the availability of drilling rigs and other production and development costs.. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation would lead to reduced utilization of our assets. We are unable to predict future potential movements in the market price for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs and thus, cannot predict the ultimate impact of prices on our operations. If commodity prices decreased or if producers experienced sustained curtailment of production, this could lead to reduced profitability and may impact our liquidity and compliance with financial covenants in our revolving credit facility. Reduced profitability may also result in future non-cash impairments of long-lived assets, goodwill, or intangible assets.. Because of these and other factors, even if new natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If reductions in drilling activity result in our inability to maintain the current levels of throughput on our systems, it could reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Natural gas, crude oil, NGL and other commodity prices are volatile, and a reduction in these prices in absolute terms, or an adverse change in the prices of natural gas and NGLs relative to one another, could adversely affect our net income, gross margin and cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Natural gas and crude oil prices declined dramatically in late 2015 and have fluctuated throughout 2016 and 2017.  These factors include the supply of and demand for these commodities, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including:. • worldwide economic conditions and political events, including actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations. • worldwide weather events and conditions, including natural disasters and seasonal changes;. • the levels of world-wide and domestic production and consumer demand;. • the availability of imported, or market for exported, crude oil and liquefied natural gas, or LNG;. • the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;. • the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials;. • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and. • the current and anticipated future prices of natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and other commodities.. Our growth strategy, and ability to fund expansion capital projects, requires access to new capital. Our ability to access the capital markets, tightened capital markets or other factors that increase our cost of capital, or limit our access to capital, could impair our ability to grow.. We continuously consider potential acquisitions and opportunities for expansion capital projects. Acquisition opportunities arise quickly and unexpectedly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. Our ability to fund our capital projects and make acquisitions depends on whether we can access the necessary financing to fund these activities.  The delayed filing of this Annual Report has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could increase the expense of accessing the capital markets. Any limitations. 29. on our access to capital or increase in the cost of that capital could significantly impair our growth strategy. Our ability to maintain our targeted credit profile, including our target debt-to-equity ratio, could affect our cost of capital as well as our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, a variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, increases in key benchmark interest rates or credit spreads, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations, the re-pricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets.. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from bank credit arrangements, our revolving credit facility or capital markets on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions and construction projects, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Our business is subject to a number of weather related risks, including severe weather in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which can cause significant damage and disruption to our business interests located in that region.. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis, the frequency of which may increase with climate change. Our High Point system, our Offshore Texas system, our Destin system, our Okeanos system, our MPOG system and non-operated interests Delta House and any future systems that we acquire in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. Our insurance and weather derivatives may not cover all associated loss. High winds, storm surge, and turbulent seas can cause significant damage and curtail these operations for extended periods during and after such weather conditions, which may result in decreased revenues from our interests in these operations. In addition, these adverse weather conditions in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico can affect producers connected to our facilities even if our facilities are not damaged, which may result in decreased revenues from our interests in these operations.. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, we either consider our customers creditworthy or require those who are not creditworthy to make prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns. However, our credit procedures and policies will not completely eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. Our customers and counterparties include entities whose creditworthiness may be suddenly and disparately impacted by, among other factors, commodity price volatility, deteriorating energy market conditions, and public and regulatory opposition to energy producing activities.. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of certain of our assets, we have entered into agreements pursuant to which various counterparties have agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for certain matters arising from the pre-closing ownership and operation of assets.. The low commodity price environment in prior years negatively impacted many oil and gas companies causing them significant economic stress including, in some cases, to file for bankruptcy protection or to renegotiate contracts, and this could recur. To the extent one or more of our key customers or counterparties commences bankruptcy proceedings, our contracts with such customers or counterparties may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code or may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assumption, rejection or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties or otherwise do not take or are unable to take sufficient mitigating actions, including obtaining sufficient collateral, deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them could cause us to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 30. If third-party pipelines or other midstream facilities interconnected to our gathering or transportation systems become partially or fully unavailable, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenue and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.. Our natural gas gathering and processing and transportation systems connect to other pipelines or facilities, the majority of which are owned and operated by third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines and other midstream facilities is not within our control. These pipelines and other midstream facilities and others upon which we rely may become unavailable because of testing, turnarounds, line repair, reduced operating pressure, lack of operating capacity, regulatory requirements, curtailments of receipt or deliveries due to insufficient capacity or because of damage from hurricanes or other operational hazards. For example, the explosion and fire at the Pascagoula Gas plant in June of 2016 suspended operations from that facility for over eight months. If any of these pipelines or other midstream facilities becomes unable to receive or transport natural gas, or if the volumes we gather or transport do not meet the natural gas quality requirements of such pipelines or facilities, our revenue and cash available for distribution may be adversely affected.. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for swap transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") in 2010. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act mandated significant changes to the over-the-counter derivative market and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\"), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivative market. Although as of December 31, 2017, the rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have not had an adverse effect on our ability to use certain derivative instruments, such rules and regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to do so in the future.. The rulemaking process under the Dodd-Frank Act has not been fully completed. As a result, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. When fully implemented, the Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could increase the operational and transactional cost of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize and restructure our existing derivatives contracts, impact commodity prices and affect the number or creditworthiness of available counterparties. For example, the rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act may increase the costs of certain derivative products as a result of the imposition of capital, margin, clearing and exchange-trading requirements either on us or on our counterparties. Any requirement to post more collateral to our counterparties in excess of what we currently post to collateralize our obligations may have a negative impact upon our liquidity. Further, the CFTC has proposed rules that would place position limits on certain core futures contracts and equivalent swap contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to certain exceptions which, if finalized, could further restrict our ability to utilize these products. If, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, we reduce our use of certain derivatives, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures or increase our distributions.. We do not control certain of the entities that own our projects and we may acquire future projects that we do not control.. We own a 50% membership interest in Cayenne, 35.7% of the Class A units of Delta House FPS LLC and Delta House Oil and Gas Lateral LLC, a 25.3% membership interest in Wilprise, and a 16.7% membership interest in Tri-States. We do not control these projects or joint ventures or their governing boards. As a result, our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders will depend in part on factors beyond our control, such as the performance of these projects or joint ventures and their distributions of cash to us. Cash distributions to us may be reduced or suspended if the assets comprising the businesses of these projects or joint ventures, or the assets of their customers, are adversely impacted by operational hazards.. Further, additional projects we may acquire may be subject to a similar structure where we do not own a majority of the project or project entity and we may invest in joint ventures in which we share control or in which we are a minority investor. In these instances, the majority investor or controlling investor may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources management and other attributes necessary to operate these assets optimally.. A decrease in demand for natural gas, NGLs or condensate by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries, could adversely affect the profitability of our midstream business.. Various factors impact the demand for natural gas, NGLs and condensate, including general economic conditions, extended periods of ethane rejection, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, adverse weather conditions, availability of natural gas processing and transportation capacity and government regulations affecting prices and. 31. production levels of natural gas, NGLs and condensate. In addition, certain of our operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we transport or redeliver. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably or at all should we experience a reduction in the volumes we sell, transport or redeliver. As a result, a decrease in demand for natural gas, NGLs or condensate by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries, could decrease volumes and adversely affect the margin and profitability of our midstream business.. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our gross margin. The loss of any one of these customers could adversely affect our ability to make distributions.. A significant percentage of the gross margin in each of our segments is attributable to a relatively small number of customers. Additionally, a number of customers upon which our business depends are small companies that may have limited access to capital or that may, as a result of operational incidents or other events, be disproportionately affected as compared to larger, better capitalized companies. Although we have gathering, processing and transmission contracts with significant customers of varying duration and commercial terms, if one or more of these customers were to default on their contract or if we were unable to renew our contract with one or more of these customers on favorable terms, we may not be able to replace these customers in a timely fashion, on favorable terms or at all. In any of these situations, our gross margin and cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our gross margin.. Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We compete with other midstream companies in our areas of operation. In addition, some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do. Our competitors may expand or construct gathering, compression, treating, processing, transportation or terminaling systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may develop their own gathering, compression, treating, processing or transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our gathering, processing, transportation and terminal contracts subject us to renewal risks.. We gather, purchase, process, transport and sell most of the commodities on our systems under contracts with terms of various durations, including contracts that have terms as short as one month or which are cancellable on as little as 30 days' notice, and which may be difficult to extend or replace. We provide NGL sales and distribution services, refined products terminals, crude oil pipeline services and above-ground storage services that support various commercial customers. As these contracts expire, we may have to negotiate extensions or renewals with existing suppliers and customers or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. We may be unable to obtain new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. We also may be unable to maintain the economic structure of a particular contract with an existing customer or the overall mix of our contract portfolio. For example, depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of a contract renewal, gathering and processing customers with percent-of-proceeds contracts may choose to switch to fee-based gathering and transportation contracts, or a producer with whom we have a natural gas purchase contract may choose to enter into a transportation contract with us and retain title to its natural gas. To the extent we are unable to renew our existing contracts on terms that are favorable to us or successfully manage our overall contract mix over time, our revenue, gross margin and cash flows could decline and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.. A significant increase in motor fuel costs or other commodity prices may adversely affect our profits.. Motor fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the operation of both our crude oil pipelines and storage and NGL distribution and sales segments. Although contracts typically have a fuel surcharge, a significant increase in motor fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to us. The price and supply of motor fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. As a result, any increases in these prices may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness.. 32. Environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities, and changing environmental, health and safety regulation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety requirements and potential liabilities under extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Further, we cannot ensure that existing environmental, health and safety laws or regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits and to subject violators to civil and criminal penalties, including substantial fines, injunctions or both. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws and regulations, may impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean-up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, third parties, including neighboring landowners, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance or to recover for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Failure to comply with these requirements may expose us to fines, penalties, remedial liabilities or interruptions or delays in our operations that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, future environmental, health and safety law developments, such as stricter laws, regulations, permits or enforcement policies, could significantly increase some costs of our operations. Areas of potential future environmental, health and safety law development include the following items:. Greenhouse Gases/Climate Change.  From time to time, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases but no such legislation has yet been adopted by Congress. In addition, some states, including states in which our facilities or operations are located, have individually or in regional cooperation, imposed restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions under various policies and approaches, including establishing a cap on emissions, requiring efficiency measures, or providing incentives for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of replacement fuels with lower carbon content.. The EPA initiated the regulation of greenhouse gases under its Clean Air Act authority in 2009, requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting rule for petroleum and natural gas facilities, including natural gas transmission compression facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. The rule, which went into effect on December 30, 2010, requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by regulated facilities to the EPA annually. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded greenhouse gas reporting requirements to all segments of the crude oil and natural gas industry, including gathering and compression facilities and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines, starting with the 2016 reporting year, and in January 2016, the EPA proposed additional revisions to leak detection methodology to align the reporting rule with the new source performance standards. A number of our facilities, including our Bazor Ridge and Chatom systems, are subject to greenhouse gas reporting, and we have filed annual emission reports for these facilities since March 2012.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane (a greenhouse gas) from crude oil and natural gas operations. In June 2016, the EPA issued new source performance standards for methane from new and modified crude oil and natural gas industry sources. These regulations will expand upon the 2012 EPA new source performance standard rulemaking for equipment-specific emissions control requirements, and will, for example, require additional controls for pneumatic controllers and pumps, and compressors, and impose leak detection and repair requirements for natural gas compressor and booster stations. However, the EPA is currently engaged in rulemaking to stay the effective date of these rules. The EPA had announced plans to begin work on regulations to regulate methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources. In November 2016, the BLM issued rules requiring additional efforts by producers to reduce venting, flaring, and leaking of natural gas produced on federal and Native American lands. In December 2017, implementation of this rule was delayed until January 2019. On an international level, in April 2016, the United States became one of almost 175 nations that signed onto the Paris Agreement, an international climate change agreement that calls for countries to set their own greenhouse gas emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its greenhouse gas emissions targets. However, in June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal, state or local regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur significant costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the commodities that we buy or sell, transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our midstream services. In addition, the adoption and implementation of any international, federal, state or local regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, the equipment and operations of our producer customers could affect their ability to produce the commodities that we. 33. buy or sell, transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our midstream services. The potential increase in our operating costs could include among other things costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. We may not be able to recover such increased costs through customer prices or rates. In addition, changes in regulatory policies that result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to greenhouse gases, or restrictions on their use, may reduce volumes available to us for processing, transportation, marketing and storage. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their greenhouse gas emissions. Should we be targeted by any such litigation, we may incur liability, which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to the company's causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors.. Hydraulic Fracturing.  Certain of our customers employ hydraulic fracturing techniques to stimulate natural gas and crude oil production from unconventional geological formations (including shale formations), which entails the injection of pressurized fracturing fluids (consisting of water, sand and certain chemicals) into a well bore. From time to time, the United States has considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, and several governmental reviews, including a study being performed by the EPA, are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing activities. Moreover, some states and localities, have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production, or otherwise limit the use of the technique. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Increased regulation to the hydraulic fracturing process also could lead to a reduction in crude oil and natural gas drilling activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, whereas increased public opposition to activities using such techniques may result in operational delays, restriction or litigation. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of crude oil and natural gas incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult for them to perform hydraulic fracturing. If these legislative and regulatory initiatives cause a material decrease in the drilling or production of new wells and related servicing activities, it may affect the volume of hydrocarbon projects available to our midstream business and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The value of our interests in operations located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be adversely impacted by increased regulation and continuing regulatory uncertainty.. Operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been subject to an increasingly stringent regulatory environment including government regulations focused on offshore operating requirements, spill cleanup, and enforcement matters. These regulations also implement additional safety and certification requirements applicable to offshore activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Certain operating assets such as our High Point system, Destin system, Okeanos system and our Offshore Texas system, and certain non-operated interests in operations located in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that we currently hold or may hold in the future, are subject to such increased regulations, including our non-operated interests in Delta House. In addition, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has increased regulatory activity including shortening the time period a line may be inactive before it must be removed or abandoned and requiring additional supplemental bonding or other forms of providing abandonment security for offshore facilities on the Outer Continental Shelf. These new regulations have increased our operating costs, and the operating costs of our producer customers. As a result, the value of our interests in these operations may be adversely affected by these regulations. Future regulatory requirements could delay activities from these operations and reduce our revenues, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability. Moreover, any failure to satisfy these regulatory requirements by our producing customers could result in the commencement of enforcement proceedings or the taking of other remedial action, including assessing civil penalties, ordering suspension of operations or production, or initiating procedures to cancel leases, which, if upheld, could materially reduce the demand for our services.. Significant portions of our pipeline systems have been in service for several decades and we have a limited ownership history with respect to all of our assets. There could be unknown events or conditions or increased maintenance or repair expenses and downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Significant portions of the pipeline systems that we have purchased had been in service for many decades prior to our purchase. Consequently, our executive management team has a limited history of operating such assets. There may be historical occurrences or latent issues regarding our pipeline systems that our executive management may be unaware of and that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The age and condition of our pipeline systems could also result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures, and any downtime associated with increased maintenance and repair activities could materially reduce our revenue. Any significant increase in maintenance and repair expenditures or loss of revenue due to the age or condition. 34. of our pipeline systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly stringent pipeline safety regulation, including pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs.. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, as reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006, the DOT, through PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located in \"high consequence areas,\" including high population areas, unless the operator effectively demonstrates by risk assessment that the pipeline could not affect the area. The regulations require operators, including us, to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. In addition, many states have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. Although many of our natural gas facilities fall within a class that is not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with our non-exempt pipelines, particularly our AlaTenn and Midla pipelines. We currently estimate that we will incur future costs of approximately $2 million during 2018 to complete the testing required by existing DOT regulations. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial. Such costs and liabilities might relate to repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Additionally, should we fail to comply with DOT regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines.. The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (\"2011 Pipeline Safety Act\"), which became law in January 2012, increases the penalties for safety violations, establishes additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and requires studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. More recently, in June 2016, President Obama signed the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (\"2016 Pipeline Safety Act\") that extends PHMSA's statutory mandate through 2019 and, among other things, requires PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act and develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities by June 22, 2018. The 2016 Pipeline Safety Act also empowers PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing.. In April 2015, PHMSA proposed rulemaking that would require leak detection for all \"hazardous liquid pipelines\" such as crude oil and NGL pipelines and require periodic assessment of hazardous liquid pipelines not already covered by the integrity management requirements. On January 13, 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule requiring the use of leak detection systems beyond HCAs to all regulated, non-gathering hazardous liquid pipelines and requiring integrity assessments at least once every ten years of onshore, piggable, transmission hazardous liquid pipeline segments located outside of HCAs. The effective date of this final rule is currently uncertain due to a regulatory freeze implemented by the Trump administration. In addition, in March 2016, PHMSA announced a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain gas lines and gathering lines including, among other things, expanding certain of PHMSA's current regulatory safety programs for gas pipelines in newly defined \"moderate consequence areas\" that contain as few as 5 dwellings within a potential impact area; requiring gas pipelines installed before 1970 and thus excluded from certain pressure testing obligations to be tested to determine their maximum allowable operating pressures (\"MAOP\"); and requiring certain onshore and offshore gathering lines in Class I areas to comply with damage prevention, corrosion control, public education, MAOP limits, line markers and emergency planning standards. Additional requirements proposed by this proposed rulemaking would increase PHMSA's integrity management requirements and also require consideration of seismicity in evaluating threats to pipelines. Such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our operations and costs of transportation services. Additionally, legislative and regulatory changes may also result in higher penalties for the violation of federal pipeline safety regulations and the costs associated with compliance may have a material effect on our operations. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time the terms of any new laws or rules or the costs of compliance associated with such requirements.. 35. A downgrade in our credit ratings could impact our access to capital and costs of doing business, and maintaining credit ratings is under the control of independent third parties.. Rating agencies may reevaluate our ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated downgrades in such credit ratings could limit our ability to access credit and capital markets, including to finance the SXE Transactions, or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness.  On November 1, 2017, S&P and Moody's both announced that our long term credit rating had been placed on watch as a result of the announcement of the SXE Transactions. As a result of any potential downgrades, future financing or refinancing, including to finance the SXE Transactions, may result in higher borrowing costs and require more restrictive terms and covenants, including obligations to post collateral with third parties, which may further restrict our operations and negatively impact liquidity.. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of criteria including, but not limited to, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current credit ratings.. We intend to grow our business in part by continuing to seek strategic acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from third parties, our future growth will be limited, and the acquisitions we do make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that increase our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. The acquisition component of our strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our ability to grow our operations and increase our distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions from third parties, whether because we are: (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable or attractive terms or (iii) outbid by competitors or for any other reason, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • assumptions about volumes, revenue, decline rates, drilling activity and cost savings, including synergies;. • inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the acquired systems or facilities;. • inability to integrate successfully the assets or businesses we acquire, particularly given the relatively small size of our management team and its limited history with certain assets;. • assumption of unknown liabilities, including environmental contamination;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • entry of competitors in the markets where the acquired business competes;. • difficulties operating in new geographic areas and business lines; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. Our construction of new assets may not result in increased revenue and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through organic growth projects. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control, including the availability of skilled labor, equipment and materials to complete expansion projects and potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that may delay or prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project. Such expansion projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted. 36. cost, or at all. Cost overruns on construction projects may cause unexpected changes in project economics. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project.. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenue until the project is completed and placed into service. Moreover, we could construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize or only materializes over a period materially longer than expected. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for, and development of, natural gas and crude oil reserves, we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in that area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate as a result of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets, or the construction of new gathering and transportation assets, may require us to obtain new rights-of-way. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way and may, therefore, be unable to connect new natural gas volumes to our systems or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases materially, our cash flows could be adversely affected.. In connection with our expansion capital programs, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to construct oil and gas gathering pipelines to service existing and future oil and gas properties, which involves potential risks.. In connection with our expansion capital programs, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, at our cost and expense, to design, acquire right-of-way for, obtain all permits from governmental authorities for, procure materials for, construct, operate, and maintain additional gathering pipelines for connection to certain current and future producing crude oil and natural gas properties. There are risks involved with such obligations, including:. • general construction cost overruns and delays resulting from numerous factors, many of which may be out of our control;. • the inability to obtain required permits for the pipelines;. • the inability to obtain rights-of-way for the gathering pipelines, which may result in pipelines being re-routed, which itself could result in cost overruns and delays;. • the risk associated with producer's exploration and production activities and the associated potential failure of the gathering pipelines to generate attractive cash flows given our obligation to construct and operate them; and. • title issues or environmental or regulatory compliance matters or liabilities or accidents associated with the construction or operation of the pipelines.. We currently expect to fund these costs with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or by accessing the capital markets. If we are unable to finance the expansion costs with existing liquidity, we could be required to seek alternative sources of liquidity, which could be costly or may not be available. In the event expansion and extension of the crude oil and natural gas properties is significantly more expensive than we expect or we are unable to obtain financing for such construction, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our results of operations and cash flows.. Our business involves many hazards, operational risks and litigation risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident, event or judgment occurs for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas, including:. • damage to pipelines, plants, storage facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • ruptures, fires and explosions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. 37. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. In addition, we have been, and are likely to continue to be, a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a result of these operating hazards and risks and as a result of other aspects of our business. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. For example, we do not have any casualty insurance on our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are self-insured for general and product, workers' compensation and automobile liabilities up to predetermined amounts above which third-party insurance applies. Additionally, we do not have business interruption/ loss of income insurance that would provide coverage in the event of damage to any of our underground facilities. In addition, although we are insured for environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, we may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. We cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our contractual indemnification rights for potential environmental liabilities.. Our interstate natural gas, crude oil and NGL pipelines are subject to regulation by FERC, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our AlaTenn, Trans-Union and Midla interstate natural gas transportation systems, our Destin pipeline, which we operate and own 66.7%, and a portion of our High Point system, are subject to regulation by FERC, under the NGA. Under the NGA, the rates for and terms of conditions of service on these interstate facilities must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. The rates and terms and conditions for our interstate pipeline services are set forth in tariffs that must be filed with and approved by FERC. Pursuant to FERC's jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed rate increases may be challenged by protest. Any successful complaint or protest against our rates could have an adverse impact on our revenue associated with providing transportation service.. Under the NGA, FERC has the authority to regulate companies that provide natural gas pipeline transportation services in interstate commerce. FERC's authority over such companies includes such matters as:. • rates, terms and conditions of service;. • the types of services interstate pipelines may offer to their customers;. • the certification and construction of new facilities;. • the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities;. • the maintenance of accounts and records;. • relationships between affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business;. • the initiation and discontinuation of services;. • market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of natural gas; and. • participation by interstate pipelines in cash management arrangements.. The EP Act 2005 amended the NGA to add an anti-manipulation provision. Pursuant to the amended NGA, FERC established rules prohibiting energy market manipulation. Also, FERC's rules require interstate pipelines and their affiliates to adhere to Standards of Conduct that, among other things, require that transportation employees function independently of marketing employees. We are subject to audit by FERC of our compliance in general, including adherence to all its rules and regulations. A violation of these rules, or any other rules, regulations or orders issued or administered by FERC, may subject us to civil penalties, disgorgement of certain profits, or appropriate non-monetary remedies imposed by FERC. In addition, the EP Act 2005 amended the NGA and the NGPA, to increase civil and criminal penalties for any violation of the NGA, NGPA and any rules, regulations or orders of FERC. Under the EP Act 2005, the FERC is authorized to impose civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per violation, per day for violations of the NGA, the NGPA or the rules, regulations, restrictions, conditions and orders promulgated under those statutes. This maximum penalty authority established by statute will continue to be adjusted periodically for inflation.  The current maximum daily penalty for a violation is $1,238,271.. Additionally, existing rates may not reflect our current costs of operations, which may have risen since the last time our rates were approved by FERC.. 38. Our Bakken crude oil gathering system, FERC-regulated American Panther, LLC offshore liquids pipelines (known as the Tiger Shoals and MP 77 offshore pipeline systems) and the Tri-States and Wilprise NGL pipelines, in which we have equity investments, are regulated as common carrier interstate pipelines by the FERC under the ICA, the EP Act 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. FERC regulations require that rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate service pipelines that transport crude oil be just and reasonable and must not be unduly discriminatory or confer any undue preference upon any shipper. FERC's regulations also require interstate common carrier petroleum pipelines to file with FERC and publicly post tariffs stating their interstate transportation rates and terms and conditions of service.. Rates of interstate liquids pipelines are currently regulated by FERC primarily through an annual indexing methodology, under which pipelines increase or decrease their rates in accordance with an index adjustment specified by FERC. For the five-year period beginning on July 1, 2016, FERC established an annual index adjustment equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.23%. Under FERC's regulations, liquids pipelines can request a rate increase that exceeds the rate obtained through application of the indexing methodology by using a cost-of-services approach, but only after the pipeline establishes that a substantial divergence exists between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rates resulting from application of the indexing methodology.. Under the ICA, FERC or interested persons may challenge existing or proposed new or changed rates, services, or terms and conditions of service. FERC is authorized to investigate such charges and may suspend the effectiveness of a new rate for up to seven months. FERC could require a common carrier pipeline to collect rates subject to refund until completion of an investigation during which FERC could find that the new or changed rate is unlawful. In contrast, FERC has clarified that initial rates and terms of service agreed upon with committed shippers in a transportation services agreement are not subject to protest or a cost-of-service analysis where the pipeline held an open season offering all potential shippers service on the same terms.. A successful rate challenge could result in a common carrier pipeline paying refunds of revenue collected in excess of the just and reasonable rate, together with interest for the period the rate was in effect, if any. FERC may also order a pipeline to reduce its rates prospectively, and may require a common carrier pipeline to pay shippers reparations retroactively for rate overages for a period of up to two years prior to the filing of a complaint. FERC also has the authority to change terms and conditions of service if it determines that they are unjust or unreasonable or unduly discriminatory or preferential.. Our intrastate natural gas and gathering transportation and sales services are subject to regulation by state and federal agencies, which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of our intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. Most states have agencies that possess the authority to review and authorize natural gas transportation transactions and the construction, acquisition, abandonment and interconnection of physical facilities. Some states also have state agencies that regulate transportation rates, service terms and conditions and contract pricing to ensure their reasonableness and to ensure that the intrastate pipeline companies that they regulate do not discriminate among similarly situated customers. Such agencies could limit our ability to increase our rates or order us to reduce our rates and pay refunds to shippers. State agencies can also regulate whether a service may be provided or cancelled. If state agencies in the states in which we offer intrastate transportation services change their policies or aggressively regulate our rates or terms and conditions of service, it could also adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Certain of our intrastate natural gas pipelines transport gas in interstate commerce that is subject to FERC jurisdiction under Section 311 of the NGPA or are exempt from FERC jurisdiction as Hinshaw pipelines but have received blanket authorization to transport natural gas on behalf of interstate pipelines. The maximum rates for services provided under Section 311 of the NGPA may not exceed a \"fair and equitable rate,\" as defined in the NGPA. The rates are generally subject to review every five years by FERC or by an appropriate state agency. The inability to obtain approval of rates at acceptable levels could result in refund obligations and an inability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Intrastate natural gas pipelines, which operate entirely within a single state, are generally not subject to FERC's jurisdiction under the NGA. Hinshaw pipelines operate within a single state but may receive gas from outside their state without becoming subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA. Specifically, a Hinshaw pipeline is exempt from FERC's general NGA regulation if: (1) it receives natural gas at or within the boundary of a state; (2) all the gas is consumed within that state; and (3) the pipeline is regulated by a state commission. Hinshaw pipelines may also receive authorization under Part 284, subpart G of the FERC's regulations to transport natural gas on behalf of interstate pipelines or a local distribution company served by an interstate pipeline.. Certain of our pipelines which transport gas in interstate commerce are \"Hinshaw\" pipelines exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC jurisdiction under Section 1(c) of the NGA, and we may have additional Hinshaw pipelines in the future. Each of our current Hinshaw pipelines has received a \"blanket certificate\" under 18 C.F.R. Section 284.244 to transport gas. The maximum. 39. rates for services provided the blanket certificate may not exceed a \"fair and equitable rate,\" as defined in the FERC Regulations. The rates are generally subject to review every five years by FERC or by an appropriate state agency. The inability to obtain approval of rates at acceptable levels could result in refund obligations and an inability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The FERC's anti-manipulation rules apply to non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted \"in connection with\" gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction. The new anti-manipulation rules do not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but only to the extent such transactions do not have a \"nexus\" to jurisdictional transactions. As noted above, the FERC's civil penalty authority under the EP Act of 2005 would apply to violations of these rules to the extent applicable to our intrastate natural gas services.. The application of certain FERC policy statements could affect the rate of return on our equity that we are allowed to recover through rates and the amount of any allowance our interstate systems can include for income taxes in establishing their rates for service, which would in turn impact our revenue or equity earnings.. FERC currently allows partnerships, including MLPs, to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance if the partnership's owners have actual or potential income tax liability, a matter that will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. In July 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued its opinion in United Airlines, Inc., et al. v. FERC, finding that FERC had acted arbitrarily and capriciously when it failed to demonstrate that permitting an interstate petroleum products pipeline organized as a limited partnership to include an income tax allowance in the cost of service underlying its rates in addition to the discounted cash flow return on equity would not result in the pipeline partnership double-recovering the income tax liability of its investors. The court vacated FERC's order and remanded to FERC to consider mechanisms for demonstrating that there is no double recovery as a result of the income tax allowance. On December 15, 2016, FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry seeking comment on how to address any double recovery resulting from income tax allowance policy. The ultimate outcome of this proceeding is not certain and could result in changes going forward to FERC's treatment of income tax allowances in the cost of service or to the discounted cash flow return on equity.  On March 15, 2018, FERC issued an order on remand in the United Airlines case and a revised policy statement on income tax recovery that disallows income tax allowances for master limited partnerships in cost of service rates. In addition, FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking on March 15, 2018 that proposes to require all interstate natural gas pipelines to submit cost of service information to account for reductions in cost of service resulting from FERC's new policy on income tax allocations for master limited partnerships and the reduction in the corporate tax rate from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that went into effect January 1, 2018. As a result of this new policy and proposed rule, the cost of service rates of our interstate pipelines could be affected to the extent they propose new rates or changes to their existing rates or if their rates are subject to complaint or challenged by FERC. However, we have considered the impact the proposed policy changes by the FERC would have on us, and we have determined that based on the current rate structure on the Partnership's FERC regulated pipelines, the proposed changes are expected to have a negligible impact on the earnings and cash flow of the Partnership. Although we cannot predict whether FERC will propose any additional policy revisions, we expect any such policy revisions will have limited application to us, because a substantial majority of the Partnership's operations are not FERC regulated.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization or regulation of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies could result in increased regulation of our assets which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Gas gathering facilities and intrastate transportation facilities that do not provide interstate transmission services are exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC under the NGA. In Docket No. CP12-9, the FERC determined that certain portions of our High Point system met the gathering exemption from regulation under the NGA. Although FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to any of our other facilities, we believe that our gathering and intrastate natural gas pipelines and related facilities that are not engaged in providing interstate transmission services are engaged in exempt gathering and intrastate transportation and, therefore, are not subject to FERC jurisdiction. We believe that our natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that FERC has used to determine if a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to FERC's jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC- regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial ongoing litigation and, over time, FERC's policy for determining which facilities it regulates has changed. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission facilities, on the one hand, and intrastate transportation and gathering facilities, on the other, is a fact-based determination made by FERC on a case- by-case basis. If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such service in excess of the cost-based rate established by FERC.. 40. Moreover, FERC regulation affects our gathering, transportation and compression business generally. FERC's policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, market manipulation, ratemaking, capacity release and market transparency and market center promotion, directly and indirectly affect our gathering business. In addition, the classification and regulation of our gathering and intrastate transportation facilities also are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress.. State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements and complaint-based rate regulation. We are subject to some state ratable take and common purchaser statutes. The ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes are designed to prohibit discrimination in favor of one producer over another producer or one source of supply over another source of supply. States in which we operate that have adopted some form of complaint-based regulation, like Texas, generally allow natural gas and crude oil producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination.. In recent years, FERC's efforts to promote open access, transparency, and the unbundling of interstate pipeline services has prompted a number of interstate pipelines to transfer their non-jurisdictional gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. As a result of these activities, natural gas gathering may begin to receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels. Such additional scrutiny could result in increased expenses to us and a resulting materially adverse change in our finances.. We are subject to stringent environmental, safety and health laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Examples of these laws include:. • the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, imposes various pre-construction, monitoring, and reporting requirements, which the Environmental Protection Agency has relied upon as authority for adopting climate change regulatory initiatives;. • the federal CERCLA and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may be or have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our wastes are or have been transported for disposal;. • the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws that regulate discharges of pollutants from facilities to state and federal waters and establishes the extent to which waterways are subject to federal jurisdiction and rulemaking as protected waters of the United States;. • the federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and analogous state laws that establish strict liability for releases of oil into waters of the United States;. • U.S. Department of the Interior regulations, which relate to offshore oil and natural-gas operations in U.S. waters and impose obligations for establishing financial assurances for decommissioning activities, liabilities for pollution cleanup costs resulting from operations, and potential liabilities for pollution damages;. • the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the generation, storage, treatment, transport and disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities;. • the Endangered Species Act of 1973 and analogous state laws that restrict activities that may affect federally or state identified endangered and threatened species or their habitats through the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas;. • the Toxic Substances Control Act, and analogous state laws that impose requirements on the use, storage and disposal of various chemicals and chemical substances at our facilities; and. • the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act and analogous state laws that establish workplace standards for the protection of the health and safety of employees, including the implementation of hazard communications programs designed to inform employees about hazardous substances in the workplace, potential harmful effects of these substances, and appropriate control measures.. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, the imposition of specific safety and health criteria addressing worker protection, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations. 41. and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations.. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations or delay expansion projects and limit our growth and revenue. See \"Business - Environmental Matters - Air Quality and Climate Control\" in Item 1  of this Annual Report for more information about these matters.. There is a risk that we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of hydrocarbons and other wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of hydrocarbons and other wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which our gathering or transportation systems pass and facilities where our hydrocarbons and other wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damage. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. See \"Business - Environmental Matters\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report for more information.. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations or the operations we may acquire in future acquisitions.. Our facilities operate under a number of required federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approvals, limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval, limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit, license or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit, license or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our results of operations and cash flows.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate or do not allow us to change our operations, or we may not be able to renew our contract leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time for specific types of operations. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise or our inability to amend these rights for new operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. A failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results.. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings or downtime, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.. 42. Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our business. We use computer programs to help run our financial and operational departments, and these systems may subject our business to increased risks. As of December 31, 2017, we did not maintain effective controls over certain information technology general controls for a significant application used in the preparation of our financial statements.  Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data, including as a result of our inability to adequately restrict user and privileged access to our financial application, programs and data,  could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber-attacks on our financial,  customer and employee data may result in financial loss and may negatively impact our reputation. We may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for our facilities and pipelines, such as additional physical facility and pipeline security, and additional security personnel. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks may adversely impact our results of operations.. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding terrorist attacks in the U.S. may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies or storage facilities, and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror.. Risks Related to the SXE Transactions. We may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the SXE Merger or, in order to do so, we may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions.. AMID and SXE received early termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act on December 8, 2017. The Merger may still be reviewed under antitrust statutes of other governmental authorities, including by state regulatory authorities such as the MPSC. The closing of the SXE Merger is subject to the condition that there is no law, injunction, judgment or ruling by a governmental authority in effect enjoining, restraining, preventing or prohibiting the SXE Merger. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory clearances will be obtained. If a governmental authority asserts objections to the SXE Merger, we may be required to divest assets in order to obtain antitrust clearance. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approval. If we take such actions, it could be detrimental to it or to the combined organization following the consummation of the SXE Merger. Furthermore, these actions could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the SXE Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues or cash available for distribution of the combined organization following the consummation of the SXE Merger.. State attorneys general could seek to block or challenge the SXE Merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the transaction. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the SXE Merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws.. The MPSC requires that when a company proposes a change of control of a certificate of public convenience and necessity (\"CPCN\"), the company must obtain an order from the MPSC approving the sale and transfer of the CPCN. Southcross Mississippi Industrial Gas Sales, L.P. (\"Southcross Mississippi\"), an indirect subsidiary of SXE, has a CPCN that, subject to the approval of the MPSC, will be transferred in connection with the SXE Transactions. The MPSC could decide not to issue an order authorizing the transfer of the CPCN. Moreover, there is no guarantee that, if granted, such order will be granted in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions.. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining employees in light of the SXE Merger.. Uncertainty about the effect of the SXE Merger on our employees may have an adverse effect on the combined organization. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the SXE Merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the SXE Merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined organization. If employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees of the combined organization, the combined organization's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the SXE Merger could be reduced.. 43. We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the SXE Transactions are pending, which could adversely affect our business and operations.. In connection with the pending SXE Transactions, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the SXE Transactions, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash available for distribution, as well as the market price of AMID Common Units, regardless of whether the SXE Transactions completed.. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the SXE Merger, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies. Such limitations could negatively affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the SXE Merger.. Furthermore, the process of planning to integrate two businesses and organizations for the post-merger period can divert management attention and resources and could ultimately have an adverse effect on each party.. However, we are permitted to engage in certain activities and transactions prior to completion of the SXE Merger, such as certain financings, incurrence of indebtedness, issuances of equity, sales of assets and acquisitions. Any of these transactions could affect our current and future financial and operating results and of the combined company.. The SXE Merger is subject to conditions, including certain conditions that may not be satisfied on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the SXE Merger, or significant delays in completing the SXE Merger, could negatively affect the trading price of AMID Common Units and our future business and financial results.. The completion of the SXE Merger is subject to a number of conditions. The completion of the SXE Merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risk that approval of the SXE Merger by SXE Unitholders or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the SXE Merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the SXE Merger, the trading price of AMID Common Units and our future business and financial results could be negatively affected, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:. • we may be liable for damages to SXE under the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement;. • negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of AMID Common Units due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the SXE Merger will be completed; and. • the attention of our management will have been diverted to the SXE Merger rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us.. The SXE Merger will not occur if the conditions to closing the SXE Contribution under the SXE Contribution Agreement, including the refinancing by us of  SXE's indebtedness, are not satisfied and the closing of the SXE Contribution does not occur or if the SXE Contribution Agreement is otherwise terminated.. It is a condition to the closing of the SXE Merger under the terms of the SXE Merger Agreement that the SXE Contribution will have closed in accordance with the SXE Contribution Agreement. Additionally, the SXE Merger Agreement will terminate automatically, and the SXE Merger will not occur, if the SXE Contribution Agreement is terminated. The completion of the SXE Contribution is subject to a number of conditions, is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risk that approval by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. Additionally, if we have not obtained sufficient financing to make the cash payments required to be made at the closing of the SXE Contribution, including for the refinancing of SXE's indebtedness, we may be required under certain circumstances to pay a reverse termination fee of $17 million to Holdings LP. We do not have in place committed financing sufficient to make the payments at the closing of the SXE Contribution, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any such failure to obtain financing would likely result in the termination of the SXE Contribution Agreement and SXE Merger Agreement and the failure to complete the SXE Merger.. The number of outstanding AMID Common Units will increase as a result of the SXE Transactions, which could make it more difficult for us to pay our current level of quarterly distributions.. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 52.7 million AMID Common Units outstanding. We estimate that we will issue approximately 3.5 million AMID Common Units in connection with the SXE Merger and 13.6 million AMID Common Units in connection with the Contribution. Accordingly, the aggregate dollar amount required to pay the current per unit quarterly distribution on all AMID Common Units will increase, which could increase the likelihood that we will not have sufficient funds. 44. to pay the current level of quarterly distributions to all AMID Common Unitholders. Using a $0.4125 per AMID Common Unit distribution (the distribution AMID had declared with respect to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 paid on February 14, 2018 to holders of record as of February 7, 2018) the aggregate cash distribution paid to AMID Common Unitholders totaled approximately $21.7 million, including a distribution to AMID GP in respect of its general partner interest. The combined pro forma AMID distribution with respect to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, had the SXE Merger been completed prior to such distribution, would have resulted in $0.4125 per unit being distributed on approximately 69.8 million AMID Common Units, or a total of approximately $29.1 million including a distribution of $0.3 million to AMID GP in respect of its general partner interest. As a result, we would have been required to distribute an additional $7.4 million in order to maintain the distribution level of $0.4125 per AMID Common Unit payable with respect to the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.. A substantial number of AMID Common Units and other securities convertible into, or exercisable for, AMID Common Units, will be issued in connection with the SXE Transactions, which will dilute the ownership interests of existing unitholders, or may otherwise reduce the value of AMID Common Units.. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the SXE Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, each SXE Common Unit issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the Effective Time will be converted into the right to receive 0.160 of an AMID Common Unit. In addition, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Contribution Agreement, Holdings LP will receive AMID Common Units, Series E preferred units, which will be convertible into AMID Common Units, and the Options, which will be exercisable into AMID Common Units. The issuance of AMID Common Units in the Transaction and the issuance of AMID Common Units upon conversion of the Series E preferred units or the exercise of the Options issued in the SXE  Contribution will dilute the ownership interests of existing unitholders.. While Holdings LP has agreed not to sell any AMID Common Units, or any other securities convertible into, or exercisable for, AMID Common Units, for a specified period set forth in the SXE Contribution Agreement, any sales, or expectation of sales, in the public market of AMID Common Units, including those issuable upon the conversion of the Series E preferred units or the exercise of the Options, after the expiration of such period could adversely affect prevailing market prices of AMID Common Units.. We will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the SXE Transactions.. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction-related costs associated with completing the SXE Transactions, combining the operations of the acquired organizations and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the our business with the business of SXE and the other businesses acquired from Holdings LP. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time.. Failure to successfully combine our business with the business of SXE and the other businesses acquired from Holdings LP in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined organization, and, consequently, the value of our common units.. The success of the SXE Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our business with the business of SXE  and the other businesses acquired from Holdings LP. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined organization is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the SXE Merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the SXE Merger. These integration difficulties could result in declines in the market value of our common units.. Risks Related to Our Units, Partnership Structure and Ownership. As our common units are yield-oriented securities, increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates have increased recently and may continue to increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of our cash distributions and distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a. 45. rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Affiliates of ArcLight directly own our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. These affiliates elect all of the members of the board of our general partner. These affiliates and our general partner have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. Affiliates of ArcLight and our general partner have the power to appoint all of the officers and directors of our general partner. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is beneficial to it, and have no duty to us or our common unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between these affiliates and our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our noteholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of these affiliates over our interests and the interests of our noteholders. These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • neither our Fifth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (as amended, the \"Partnership Agreement\") nor any other agreement requires these affiliates of ArcLight to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the officers and directors of these affiliates may have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of these affiliates of ArcLight and their respective direct and indirect owners, respectively, which may be contrary to our interests. These affiliates of ArcLight may choose to shift the focus of their investment and growth to areas not served by our assets;. • these affiliates of ArcLight, their respective direct and indirect owners and their respective affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and may offer business opportunities or sell midstream assets to third parties without first offering us the right to bid for them;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest and exercising certain rights under our Partnership Agreement, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders;. • our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities, and also restricts the remedies available to our noteholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of such fiduciary duty;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • disputes may arise under our commercial agreements or acquisition agreements with these affiliates of ArcLight;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner as well as the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Units into common units;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the Convertible Preferred Units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of a subordination period;. • our Partnership Agreement permits us to classify up to $11.5 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, nonworking capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our Convertible Preferred Units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights;. • our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us;. • our general partner may transfer its IDRs without unitholder approval;. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts. 46. Committee of the Board of Directors of our general partner (\"Conflicts Committee\") or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations; and. • although ArcLight has provided cash and other support for our liquidity in the past, it is under no obligation to do so in the future.. The affiliates of ArcLight that own our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The affiliates of ArcLight that own our general partner are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, in the future, affiliates of our general partner and the entities owned or controlled by affiliates of our general partner, including these affiliates of ArcLight may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets and may be presented with new business opportunities, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct such assets or to engage in such business opportunities. Moreover, while these affiliates of ArcLight may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from them, they are under no contractual obligation to do so and we are unable to predict whether or when such acquisitions might be completed. Although ArcLight has provided us with financial support in the past, it is under no obligation to do so in the future. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner, and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. The New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. If you are not an eligible holder, you may not receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on your common units and your common units will be subject to redemption.. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our units. Eligible holders are U.S. individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity's owners are U.S. individuals or entities subject to such taxation. If you are not an eligible holder, our General Partner may elect not to make distributions or allocate net income or loss on your units, and you run the risk of having your units redeemed by us at the lower of your purchase price for the units and the then-current market price. The redemption price may be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner.. Common units held by persons who are non-taxpaying assignees will be subject to the possibility of redemption.. Our Partnership Agreement gives our General Partner the power to amend the agreement to avoid any adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to customers by us under FERC regulations or to reverse an adverse determination that has occurred regarding such maximum rate. If our General Partner determines that our not being treated as an association taxable as a corporation or otherwise taxable as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, coupled with the tax status (or lack of proof thereof) of one or more of our limited partners, has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates chargeable to customers by us, then our General Partner may adopt such amendments to our Partnership Agreement as it determines are necessary or advisable to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status of our limited partners (and their owners, to the extent relevant) and permit us to redeem the units held by any person whose tax status has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates or who fails to comply with the procedures instituted by our General Partner to obtain proof of the U.S. federal income tax status.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute our available cash to our unitholders. Accordingly, we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow.. 47. In addition, because we intend to distribute our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement, or in our revolving credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other indebtedness to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement limits our General Partner's fiduciary duties to us and the holders of our common units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary duties to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement:. • provides that whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in, or not opposed to, the best interest of our partnership;. • provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or their assignees resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the Partnership Agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. a. approved by the Conflicts Committee of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, although our General Partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. b. approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates;. c. on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. d. fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the Conflicts Committee, and the Board of Directors of our General Partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in subclauses (c) and (d) above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of our General Partner's board or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Our General Partner has the right, at any time it has received incentive distributions exceeding the target distribution described in our Partnership Agreement for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our General Partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. 48. We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when we are experiencing declines in our aggregate cash distributions or at a time when our General Partner expects that we will experience declines in our aggregate cash distributions in the foreseeable future. In such situations, our General Partner may be experiencing, or may expect to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units, which are entitled to specified priorities with respect to our distributions and which therefore may be more advantageous for the General Partner to own in lieu of the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then current business environment. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our General Partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our General Partner's incentive distribution rights.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The Board of Directors of our General Partner will be chosen by HPIP and AMID GP Holdings, LLC (\"AMID GP Holdings\"). Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our General Partner without its consent.. Our unitholders are unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding limited partner interests voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of December 31, 2017, ArcLight indirectly held common units or convertible preferred units representing 48.60% of our then-outstanding common units (on an as converted basis).. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our Partnership Agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our General Partner interest or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its General Partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our Partnership Agreement does not restrict the ability of HPIP or AMID GP Holdings to transfer all or a portion of their ownership interests in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our General Partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. We may issue additional units, including units that are senior to the common units and pari passu with our existing convertible preferred units, without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests.. Our Partnership Agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. 49. • because of the convertible preferred units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. ArcLight may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of March 26, 2018, ArcLight held all of our Series A-1 Units, Series A-2 Units and Series C Units through its affiliates. The Series A-1, A-2 and C are all convertible into common units at the election of ArcLight at any time.  The sale of these units and the common units owned directly and indirectly by ArcLight and its affiliates could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our General Partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our Partnership Agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units.. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A General Partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the General Partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a General Partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under our Partnership Agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the Partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the Partnership Agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest nor liabilities that are non-recourse to the Partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. If we are deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our assets include 35.7% non-operated interest in Delta House Class A Units, a 16.7% non-operated interest in Tri- States, a 25.3% non-operated interest in Wilprise, a non-operated interest in Mesquite and a 26.3% non-operated interest in Pinto, any of which may be deemed to be an \"investment security\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\"). In the future, we may acquire additional minority owned interests that could be deemed \"investment securities.\" If a sufficient amount of our assets are deemed to be \"investment securities\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage. 50. transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which case we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the corporate tax rate, significantly reducing the cash available for distributions.. Additionally, distributions to our unitholders would be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders.. Additionally, as a result of our desire to avoid having to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may have to forego potential future acquisitions of interests in companies that may be deemed to be investment securities within the meaning of the Investment Company Act or dispose of our current interests in any of our assets that are deemed to be \"investment securities.\". Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to the unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, the IRS could disagree with the positions we take or a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to a unitholder would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to the unitholder. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, such proposals or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. On January 24, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS published final regulations (the \"Final Regulations\") regarding qualifying income under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code. We believe the income that we treat as qualifying satisfies the. 51. requirements under these regulations. However, there are no assurances that the regulations will not be revised to take a position that is contrary to our interpretation of current law.. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay the State of Texas a margin tax that is assessed at 0.75% of taxable margin apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by any state will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The Partnership Agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income tax laws and transactional tax laws such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem tax laws. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Further, taxing authorities may change their application of existing taxes, so that additional entities or transactions may become subject to an existing tax. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional tax payments, as well as interest and penalties. The costs of these audits are borne indirectly by the unitholders and our General Partner because such costs reduce our cash available for distribution.. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to the unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in a prospectus or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any such contest, may increase a unitholder's tax liability and result in adjustment to items unrelated to us and could materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the unitholders and our General Partner because such costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. Although our General Partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustments into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. If we are unable to have the unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests during the taxable year under audit, the current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units during the taxable year under audit. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. The unitholders' share of our income will be taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if the unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. The unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from that income.. Certain actions that we may take, such as issuing additional units, may increase the U.S. federal income tax liability of unitholders.. 52. In the event we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions in the future, the allocable share of nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the unitholders will be recalculated to take into account our issuance of any additional units. Any reduction in a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities will be treated as a distribution of cash to that unitholder and will result in a corresponding tax basis reduction in a unitholder's units. A deemed cash distribution may, under certain circumstances, result in the recognition of taxable gain by a unitholder, to the extent that the deemed cash distribution exceeds such unitholder's tax basis in its units.. In addition, the U.S. federal income tax liability of a unitholder could be increased if we dispose of assets or make a future offering of units and use the proceeds in a manner that does not produce substantial additional deductions, such as to repay indebtedness currently outstanding or to acquire property that is not eligible for depreciation or amortization for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that is depreciable or amortizable at a rate significantly slower than the rate currently applicable to the our assets.. Unitholders may be subject to limitations on their ability to deduct interest expense we incur.. Our ability to deduct business interest expense will be limited for U.S. federal income tax purposes to an amount equal to the sum of (i) our business interest income during the taxable year and (ii) 30% of our adjusted taxable income for such taxable year. For the purposes of this limitation, adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. If we are not entitled to fully deduct our business interest in any taxable year, such excess business interest expense will be allocated to each unitholder as excess business interest and can be carried forward by the unitholder to successive taxable years and used to offset any excess taxable income allocated by us to such unitholder. Any excess business interest expense allocated to a unitholder will reduce such unitholder's tax basis in its partnership interest in the year of the allocation even if the expense does not give rise to a deduction to the unitholder in that year. Immediately prior to a disposition of its shares, a unitholder's tax basis will be increased by the amount by which such basis reduction exceeds the excess interest expense that has been deducted by such unitholder.. There are limits on the deductibility of losses that may adversely affect unitholders.. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals, closely-held corporations and regulated investment companies), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of the unitholder's entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships.. Further, in addition to the other limitations described above, non-corporate taxpayers may only deduct business losses up the gross income or gain attributable to such trade or business plus $250,000 ($500,000 for unitholders filing jointly). Amounts that may not be deducted in a taxable year may be carried forward into the following taxable year. This limitation shall be applied after the passive loss limitations and, unless amended, applies only to taxable years beginning prior to December 31, 2025.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder sells its common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to the unitholder decrease the unitholder's tax basis in the unitholder's common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells the common units at a price greater than the unitholder's tax basis in those common units, even if the price received by the unitholder is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of a unitholder's common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if the unitholder sells its common units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are. 53. exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income, which may be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. persons are generally taxed and subject to U.S. federal income tax filing requirements on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. Income allocated to our unitholders and, under recently enacted legislation, any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of its interest will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit to the extent the gain is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business of the non-U.S. unitholder.. Recently enacted legislation also imposes a federal income tax withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. person's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the application of this withholding rule to dispositions of publicly traded partnership interests has been temporarily suspended by the IRS until regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges have been issued. It is not clear if or when such regulations or guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the unitholders' tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Treasury recently adopted final regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders to ours. These regulations apply to certain publicly-traded partnerships, including us, for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, these regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the unitholders.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies for tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and the General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of the Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Code Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our General Partner and certain of the unitholders.. 54. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to the unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from the unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to the unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states and jurisdictions where they do not reside as a result of investing in our units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders may be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax or an entity level tax. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns.. Some of the states in which we do business or own property may require us to, or we may elect to, withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular unit holder's income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve the nonresident unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us."
