[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common shares could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of \"Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to our Business and Operations. Our investments are concentrated in the temperature-controlled warehouse industry, and our business would be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in that industry.. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the industrial real estate industry, specifically in temperature-controlled warehouses. This concentration exposes us to the risk of economic downturns in this industry to a greater extent than if our business activities included a more significant portion of other sectors of the real estate market. We are also exposed to fluctuations in the markets for the commodities and finished products that we store in our warehouses. For example, the demand for poultry and poultry products directly impacts the need for temperature-controlled warehouse space to store poultry and poultry products for our customers. Although our customers store a diverse product mix in our temperature-controlled warehouses, declines in demand for their products could cause our customers to reduce their inventory levels at our warehouses, which could reduce the storage and other fees payable to us and materially and adversely affect us.. Our temperature-controlled warehouses are concentrated in certain geographic areas, some of which are particularly susceptible to adverse local conditions.. Although we own or hold leasehold interests in warehouses across the United States and globally, many of these warehouses are concentrated in a few geographic areas. For example, approximately 44.4% of our owned or leased warehouses are located in the states of Georgia, Pennsylvania, California, Wisconsin, Texas and Missouri, with approximately 8.7% in Georgia, 8.4% in California, 8.3% in Pennsylvania, 7.0% in Texas , 6.6% in Wisconsin, and 5.4% in Missouri (in each case, on a cubic-foot basis based on information as of December 31, 2017). We could be materially and adversely affected if conditions in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties become less favorable. Local conditions may include natural disasters, periods of economic slowdown or recession, localized oversupply in warehousing space or reductions in demand for warehousing space, adverse agricultural events, disruptions in logistics systems, such as transportation and tracking systems for our customers' inventory, and power outages. In addition, adverse weather patterns may affect local harvests, which could have an adverse effect on our customers and cause them to reduce their inventory levels at our warehouses, which could in turn materially and adversely affect us.. Unfavorable market, economic and demographic conditions could have a material adverse effect on us.. Unfavorable market conditions in the areas in which we operate and unfavorable economic conditions in the United States and globally could have a material adverse effect on us. Specifically, our business operations are sensitive to the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, declines in the real estate market, increases in power costs and geopolitical issues. A severe or prolonged economic downturn, such as the most recent global financial crisis, may adversely impact the general availability of credit to businesses and could lead to a weakening of the U.S. and global economies. While it is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of any. 12. unfavorable market or economic conditions and the many ways in which they may affect our customers and our business in general, unfavorable market or economic conditions may result in:. • changes in consumer trends and preferences for products we store in our warehouses;. • customer defaults on their contracts with us;. • reduced demand for our warehouse space;. • increased vacancies at our warehouses and inability to retain our customers;. • lower rates from, and economic concessions to, our customers;. • our inability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all, when desired;. • decreased value of our properties and related impact on our ability to obtain attractive prices on sales or to obtain secured debt financing; and. • illiquidity and decreased value of our short-term investments and cash deposits.. Although current global market and economic conditions have improved from the unprecedented decline of global economies experienced during the period from 2008 to 2012, concerns still exist regarding the systemic impact of global and domestic economic events, including geopolitical issues that may contribute to increased market volatility, uncertain expectations for the global economy and interest rate increases, which may reduce the availability of financing. Our business continues to be exposed to certain considerations that could hinder our future growth. The success of our business will be affected by general economic and market conditions, as well as by changes in laws, currency exchange controls, and national and international political, environmental and socio-economic circumstances. A downturn in the U.S. or global economy (or any particular segment thereof) could adversely affect our profitability, impede our ability to repay or refinance our existing obligations, and impair our ability to effectively sell properties on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all. Any of the foregoing events could result in substantial or total losses to our business in respect of certain properties, which will likely be exacerbated by the terms of our indebtedness.. We are exposed to risks associated with expansion and development, which could result in disappointing returns and unforeseen costs and liabilities.. We have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in expansion and development activities with respect to certain of our properties. This will subject us to certain risks not present for acquisitions of existing properties (the risks of which are described below), including, without limitation, the following:. • our pipeline of expansion and development opportunities are at various stages of discussion and consideration and, based on historical experiences, many of them may not be pursued or completed as contemplated or at all;. • the availability and timing of financing on favorable terms or at all;. • the availability and timely receipt of zoning and regulatory approvals, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to the warehouse for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations;. • the cost and timely completion within budget of construction due to increased land, materials, labor or other costs (including risks beyond our control, such as weather or labor conditions, or material shortages), which could make completion of the warehouse or the expansion thereof uneconomical, and we may not be able to increase revenues to compensate for the increase in construction costs;. • we may be unable to complete construction of a warehouse or the expansion thereof on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs;. • the potential that we may expend funds on and devote management time and attention to projects which we do not complete;. 13. • a completed expansion project or a newly-developed warehouse may fail to achieve, or take longer than anticipated to achieve, expected occupancy rates, and may fail to perform as expected;. • we may not be able to successfully integrate expanded or newly-developed properties; and. • we may not be able to achieve targeted returns and budgeted stabilized returns on invested capital on our expansion and development opportunities due to the risks described above, and an expansion or development may not be profitable and could lose money.. These risks could create substantial unanticipated delays and expenses and, in certain circumstances, prevent the initiation or completion of expansion or development as contemplated or at all, any of which could materially and adversely affect us.. We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions of suitable properties, which may impede our growth, and our future acquisitions may not yield the returns we expect.. Our ability to expand through acquisitions requires us to identify and complete acquisitions that are compatible with our growth strategy and to successfully integrate and operate these newly-acquired properties. We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities, but cannot guarantee that suitable opportunities currently exist or will exist in the future. Our ability to identify and acquire suitable properties on favorable terms and to successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following risks:. • we face competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including REITs and institutional investment funds, which may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks associated with paying higher acquisition prices;. • we face competition from other potential acquirers that may significantly increase the purchase price for a property we acquire, which could reduce our growth prospects;. • we may incur significant costs and divert management's attention in connection with evaluating and negotiating potential acquisitions, including ones that we are subsequently unable to complete;. • we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our operating and financial results upon acquisition, and we may be unsuccessful in integrating and operating such properties in accordance with our expectations;. • our cash flow from an acquired property may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments with respect to any debt used to finance the acquisition of such property;. • we may discover unexpected items, such as unknown liabilities, during our due diligence investigation of a potential acquisition or other customary closing conditions may not be satisfied, causing us to abandon an acquisition opportunity after incurring expenses related thereto;. • we may face opposition from governmental authorities or third parties alleging that potential acquisition transactions are anti-competitive, and as a result, we may have to spend a significant amount of time and expense to respond to related inquiries;. • we may fail to obtain financing for an acquisition on favorable terms or at all;. • we may be unable to make, or may spend more than budgeted amounts to make, necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;. • we may spend more than budgeted amounts to meet customer specifications on a newly-acquired warehouse;. • market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected storage charges, rent or fees; or. • we may, without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, acquire properties subject to liabilities, such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the. 14. ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.. Our inability to identify and complete suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or to integrate and operate newly-acquired properties to meet our financial, operational and strategic expectations, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets.. If the opportunity arises, we may acquire or develop properties in new markets. In particular, we have determined to strategically grow our warehouse portfolio in attractive international markets. In addition to the risks described above under \" - We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions of suitable properties, which may impede our growth, and our future acquisitions may not yield the returns we expect\" and \" - We are exposed to risks associated with expansion and development, which could result in disappointing returns and unforeseen costs and liabilities,\" the acquisition or development of properties in new markets will subject us to the risks associated with a lack of understanding of the related economy and unfamiliarity with government and permitting procedures. We will also not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new market that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully expand and operate in such market. We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding and operating in new, high-growth markets, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. We depend on certain customers for a substantial amount of our warehouse segment revenues.. During the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our 25 largest customers in our warehouse segment contributed approximately 61% and 61%, respectively, of our warehouse segment revenues. As of December 31, 2017, we had one customer that accounted for at least 8.8% of our warehouse segment revenues and 11 customers that each accounted for at least 2% of our warehouse segment revenues. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, 39 of our warehouses were predominantly single-customer warehouses. If any of our most significant customers were to discontinue or otherwise reduce their use of our warehouses or other services, which they are generally free to do at any time unless they are party to a contract that includes a fixed storage commitment, we would be materially and adversely affected. While we have contracts with stated terms with certain of our customers, most of our contracts do not obligate our customers to use our warehouses or provide for fixed storage commitments. Moreover, a decrease in demand for certain commodities or products produced by our significant customers and stored in our temperature-controlled warehouses would lower our occupancy rates and use of our services, without lowering our fixed costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, while some of our warehouses are located in primary markets, others are located in secondary and tertiary markets that are specifically suited to the particular needs of the customer utilizing these warehouses. For example, our production advantaged warehouses typically serve one or a small number of customers. These warehouses are also generally located adjacent to or otherwise in close proximity to customer processing or production facilities and were often build-to-suit at the time of their construction. If customers who utilize this type of warehouse, which may be located in remote areas, relocate their processing or production plants, default or otherwise cease to use our warehouses, then we may be unable to find replacement customers for these warehouses on favorable terms or at all or, if we find replacement customers, we may have to incur significant costs to reposition these warehouses for the replacement customers' needs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. 15. Our customers could experience bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration.. Our customers could experience a downturn in their businesses, which may weaken their financial condition and liquidity and result in their failure to make timely payments to us or otherwise default under their contracts or a decrease in their inventory levels with us and use of our services, without lowering our fixed costs, which could materially and adversely affect us.. If our customers are unable to comply with the terms of their contracts with us, we may be forced to modify these contracts on terms that are not favorable to us. Alternatively, customers may seek to cancel their contracts. Termination provisions in our contracts vary, but generally permit either party to terminate the contract upon a material breach by the counterparty and otherwise are specifically determined for each customer based on several factors. These include the volume of business involved, the readiness and quality of available capacity elsewhere and the customer's internal constraints affecting its ability to move product. Cancellation of, or the failure of a customer to perform under, a contract could require us to seek replacement customers. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find suitable replacements on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all or reposition the warehouses without incurring significant costs.. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to any of our customers could prevent or delay us from collecting pre-bankruptcy obligations. In addition, to the extent that our customers have continuing obligations under any warehouse contract, the bankruptcy court might authorize the customer to reject and terminate its warehouse contract with us, or the bankruptcy trustee might pursue preferential payments made to us prior to a bankruptcy. In such instances, our claim for unpaid charges would likely not be paid in full, even if we have secured warehouseman's liens on our customer's assets. Additionally, any such lien may attach to products that are perishable or otherwise not readily saleable by us. Although we have in the past been deemed to have \"critical vendor\" status in certain bankruptcy filings, which resulted in our customer being able to pay us pre-bankruptcy obligations, there is no guarantee that we will be granted any such status in the future.. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our customers, particularly our significant customers, could materially and adversely affect us.. The short-term nature and lack of fixed storage commitments of many of our customer contracts exposes us to certain risks that could have a material adverse effect on us.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 41.4% of our warehouse segment revenues were generated from contracts with a fixed storage commitment or leases with customers. Annualized committed rent and storage revenues attributable to our fixed storage commitment contracts and leases as of December 31, 2017 equaled 38.7% of our total warehouse segment rent and storage revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Our customer contracts that do not contain fixed storage commitments typically do not require our customers to utilize a minimum number of pallet positions or provide for guaranteed fixed payment obligations. from any customers to us. As a result, most of our customers may discontinue or otherwise reduce their use of our warehouses or other services in their discretion at any time, without lowering our fixed costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The storage and other fees we generate from customers with month-to-month warehouse rate agreements may be adversely affected by declines in market storage and other fee rates more quickly than with respect to our contracts that contain stated terms. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any customers upon the expiration of their contracts (whether month-to-month warehouse rate agreements or contracts) or leases. If we cannot retain our customers, or if our customers that are not party to contracts with fixed storage commitments elect not to store goods in our warehouses, we may be unable to find replacement. 16. customers on favorable terms or at all or on a timely basis and we may incur significant expenses in obtaining replacement customers and repositioning warehouses to meet their needs. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect us.. We have limited experience operating as a publicly traded REIT.. We have limited experience operating as a publicly traded REIT. As a publicly traded REIT, we will be required to develop and implement substantial control systems, policies and procedures in order to maintain our REIT qualification and satisfy our periodic SEC reporting, SEC compliance and NYSE listing requirements. We cannot assure you that our management's past experience will be sufficient to successfully develop and implement these systems, policies and procedures and to operate our company as a publicly traded REIT. Any difficulty we have in operating as a publicly traded REIT in compliance with these requirements could subject us to significant fines, sanctions and other liabilities and jeopardize our status as a REIT or as a public company listed on the NYSE, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our systems may not be adequate to support our growth.. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to adapt our portfolio management, administrative, accounting, information technology and operational systems to support any growth we may experience. Our failure to oversee our current portfolio of properties or any future acquisitions, expansions, developments or capital improvements could materially and adversely affect us.. Competition in our markets may increase over time if our competitors open new warehouses.. We compete with other owners and operators of temperature-controlled warehouses (including our customers or potential customers who may choose to provide temperature-controlled warehousing in-house), some of which own properties similar to ours in similar geographic locations. In recent years, our competitors, including Lineage Logistics, LLC, Preferred Freezer Services, LLC, United States Cold Storage, Inc. (an affiliate of John Swire & Sons), AGRO Merchants Group, Interstate Warehousing, Cloverleaf Cold Storage, NewCold, Emergent, A.B. Oxford and PolarCord Stores have added, through construction and development, temperature-controlled warehouses in certain of our markets. In addition, our customers or potential customers may choose to develop new temperature-controlled warehouses, expand their existing temperature-controlled warehouses or upgrade their equipment. Many of our warehouses are older and as our warehouses and equipment age and newer warehouses and equipment come onto the market, we may lose existing or potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rent and storage and other fees below those we currently charge in order to retain customers. If we lose one or more customers, we cannot assure you that we would be able to replace those customers on attractive terms or at all. We also may be forced to invest in new construction or reposition existing warehouses at significant costs in order to remain competitive. Increased capital expenditures or the loss of warehouse segment revenues resulting from lower occupancy or storage rates could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to additional risks with respect to our current and potential international operations and properties.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned or had a leasehold interest in 14 temperature-controlled warehouses outside the United States, and we managed four warehouses outside the United States on behalf of third parties. We also intend to strategically grow our portfolio globally through acquisitions of temperature-controlled warehouses in attractive international markets to service demonstrable customer demand where we believe the anticipated risk-adjusted returns are consistent with our investment objectives. Specifically, we are targeting attractive growth opportunities for temperature-controlled warehouses in international markets in Asia and. 17. Europe. However, there is no assurance that our existing customer relationships will support our international operations in any meaningful way or at all. Our international operations and properties could be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which our warehouses are located. These laws and business practices expose us to risks that are different than or in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Risks relating to our international operations and properties include:. • changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws;. • enactment of laws relating to the international ownership of real property or mortgages and laws restricting the ability to remove profits earned from activities within a particular country to a person's or company's country of origin;. • variations in currency exchange rates;. • adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest and changes in international, national or local governmental or economic conditions;. • the willingness of U.S. or international lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost and terms of secured and unsecured debt resulting from varying governmental economic policies;. • the imposition of unique tax structures and changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries;. • general political and economic instability;. • potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing or making other prohibited payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits;. • our limited experience and expertise in foreign countries relative to our experience and expertise in the United States;. • restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings generated from our international operations and adverse tax consequences in the applicable jurisdictions, such as double taxation; and. • potential liability under, and costs of complying with, more stringent environmental laws or changes in the requirements or interpretation of existing laws, or environmental consequences of less stringent environmental management practices in foreign countries relative to the United States.. If any of the foregoing risks were to materialize, they could materially and adversely affect us.. Our warehouse business outside the United States exposes us to losses resulting from currency fluctuations.. Our warehouse business outside the United States exposes us to losses resulting from currency fluctuations, as the revenues associated with our international operations and properties are generated in the local currency of each of the countries in which the properties are located. Fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar will therefore give rise to non-U.S. currency exposure, which could materially and adversely affect us. We may attempt to mitigate any such effects by entering into currency exchange rate hedging arrangements where it is practical to do so and where such hedging arrangements are available. These hedging arrangements may bear substantial costs, however, and may not eliminate all related risks. We cannot assure you that our efforts will successfully mitigate our currency risks. Moreover, if we do engage in currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized with respect to these hedges (as well as any foreign currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates) may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code.. 18. The Argentine foreign exchange market is subject to controls, which may adversely affect our ability to repatriate the revenues we derive from our Argentine operations.. Since December 2001, different Argentine government administrations have established and implemented various restrictions on foreign currency transfers, including certain restrictions on the ability to repatriate earnings from Argentina. Although in December 2015, the Macri administration eliminated or otherwise reduced many of such restrictions, we cannot assure you that such measures will not be implemented in the future again.. The impact that these current measures will have on the Argentine economy and on us is still uncertain. We cannot assure you that the current regulations will not be amended, or that no new regulations will be enacted in the future imposing other limitations on funds flowing into and out of the Argentine foreign exchange market. Any such new measures, as well as any additional regulations and/or restrictions, could materially and adversely affect our ability to repatriate the revenues we derive from our Argentine operations or transfer funds abroad.. In the future, we cannot rule out a less favorable international economic environment, lack of stability and competitiveness of the Argentine currency against other foreign currencies, a lower level of confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors, a higher inflation rate or future political uncertainties, among other factors. In case any such circumstances occur, it could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations in Argentina.. We depend on key personnel and specialty personnel, and a deterioration of employee relations could harm our business and operating and financial results.. Our success following the IPO depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, including Fred Boehler and Marc Smernoff, each of whom would be difficult to replace. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating and financial results could suffer. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We have not obtained and do not expect to obtain key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. Our ability to retain our management group or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key members of our management team or a limitation of their availability could materially and adversely affect us.. We also believe that our future success, particularly in international markets, will depend in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, investment, financing, operational and marketing. personnel. The customer service, marketing skills and knowledge of local market demand and competitive dynamics of our employees are contributing factors to our ability to maximize our income and to achieve the highest sustainable storage levels at each of our warehouses. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. In addition, our temperature-controlled warehouse business depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with engineering expertise and experience. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to hire and retain such personnel.. Wage increases driven by U.S. federal, state and local legislation and competitive pressures on employee wages and benefits could negatively affect our operating margins and our ability to attract qualified personnel.. Our hourly U.S. employees are typically paid wage rates above the applicable U.S. federal, state or local minimum wage. However, increases in the minimum wage will increase our labor costs if we are to continue paying our hourly employees above the applicable U.S. federal, state or local minimum wage. If we are unable to continue paying our hourly employees above the applicable U.S. federal, state or local minimum wage, we may be unable to hire and retain qualified personnel. The U.S. federal minimum wage has been $7.25 per hour since July 24, 2009. From time to time, various U.S. federal, state and local legislators have proposed or enacted. 19. significant changes to the minimum wage requirements. For example, certain local or regional governments in places such as Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, San Francisco, Portland and New York have approved phased-in increases that eventually will take their minimum wage to as high as $15.00 per hour. If similar increases were to occur in additional markets in which we operate, our operating margins would be negatively affected unless we are able to increase our rent, storage fees and handling fees in order to pass increased labor costs on to our customers.. Competitive pressures may also require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel (including costs associated with health insurance coverage or workers' compensation insurance). If we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, we could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be subject to work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations.. Certain portions of our operations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2017, worldwide, we employed approximately 11,000 people, approximately 53% of which were represented by various local labor unions, and 85 of our 158 warehouses have unionized associates that are governed by 72 different collective bargaining agreements. Unlike owners of industrial warehouses, we hire our own workforce to handle and store items for our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, lockouts or other industrial disputes could cause us to experience a significant disruption in our operations, as well as increase our operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect us. If a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, we could be materially and adversely affected. Since January 1, 2016, we have successfully negotiated 41 collective bargaining agreements (which expired in 2016 and 2017 or were first contracts) without any work stoppages. We are currently negotiating two collective bargaining agreements, both of which have expired and which we continue to operate by mutual consent while negotiations are finalized. If we fail to re-negotiate our expired or expiring collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms in a timely manner or at all, we could be materially and adversely affected.. Power costs may increase or be subject to volatility, which could result in increased costs that we may be unable to recover.. Power is a major operating cost for temperature-controlled warehouses, and the price of power varies substantially between the markets in which we operate, depending on the power source and supply and demand factors. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, power costs in our warehouse segment accounted for 9.1% and 9.4%, respectively, of the segment's operating expenses. We have implemented programs across our warehouses to reduce overall consumption and to reduce consumption at peak demand periods, when power prices are typically highest. However, there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective in reducing our power consumption.. We have entered into, or may in the future enter into, fixed price power purchase agreements in certain deregulated markets whereby we contract for the right to purchase an amount of electric capacity at a fixed rate per kilowatt. These contracts do not obligate us to purchase any minimum amounts but would require negotiation if our capacity requirements were to materially differ from historical usage or exceed the thresholds agreed upon. For example, exceeding these thresholds could have an adverse impact on our incremental power purchase costs if we were to be unable to obtain favorable rates on the incremental purchases.. If the cost of electric power to operate our warehouses increases dramatically or fluctuates widely and we are unable to pass such costs through to customers, we could be materially and adversely affected.. 20. We could experience power outages or breakdowns of our refrigeration equipment.. Our warehouses are subject to electrical power outages and breakdowns of our refrigeration equipment. We attempt to limit exposure to such occasions by using backup generators and power supplies, generally at a significantly higher operating cost than we would pay for an equivalent amount of power from a local utility, and by conducting regular maintenance and upgrades to our refrigeration equipment. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. Power outages that last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements and refrigeration equipment breakdowns would harm our customers and our business. During power outages and refrigeration equipment breakdowns, changes in humidity and temperature could spoil or otherwise contaminate the frozen and perishable food and other products stored by our customers. We could incur financial obligations to, or be subject to lawsuits by, our customers in connection with these occurrences, which may not be covered by insurance. Any loss of services or product damage could reduce the confidence of our customers in our services and could consequently impair our ability to attract and retain customers. Additionally, in the event of the complete failure of our refrigeration equipment, we would incur significant costs in repairing or replacing our refrigeration equipment, which may not be covered by insurance. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may incur liabilities or harm our reputation as a result of quality-control issues associated with our warehouse storage and other services.. We store frozen and perishable food and other products. Product contamination, spoilage, other adulteration, product tampering or other quality control issues could occur at any of our temperature-controlled warehouses or during the transportation of these products, which could cause our customers to lose all or a portion of their inventory. We could be liable for the costs incurred by our customers as a result of the lost inventory, and we also may be subject to liability, which could be material, if any of the frozen and perishable food products we stored or transported caused injury, illness or death. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may negatively impact our brand and reputation and otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. Our temperature-controlled warehouse infrastructure may become obsolete or unmarketable and we may not be able to upgrade our equipment cost-effectively or at all.. The infrastructure at our temperature-controlled warehouses may become obsolete or unmarketable due to the development of, or demand for, more advanced equipment or enhanced technologies. In addition, our information technology platform pursuant to which we provide inventory management and other services to our customers may become outdated. When customers demand new equipment or technologies, the cost could be significant and we may not be able to upgrade our warehouses on a cost-effective basis in a timely manner, or at all, due to, among other things, increased expenses to us that cannot be passed on to customers or insufficient resources to fund the necessary capital expenditures. The obsolescence of our infrastructure or our inability to upgrade our warehouses would likely reduce warehouse segment revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We hold leasehold interests in 26 of our warehouses, and we may be forced to vacate our warehouses if we default on our obligations thereunder and we will be forced to vacate our warehouses if we are unable to renew such leases upon their expiration.. As of December 31, 2017, we held leasehold interests in 26 of our warehouses. These leases expire (taking into account our extension options) from June 2018 to August 2050, and had a weighted-average remaining term of 21 years. If we default on any of these leases, we may be liable for damages and could lose our leasehold interest in the applicable property, including all improvements. We would incur significant costs if we. 21. were forced to vacate any of these leased warehouses due to, among other matters, the high costs of relocating the equipment in our warehouses. If we were forced to vacate any of these leased warehouses, we could lose customers that chose our storage or other services based on our location, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our landlords could attempt to evict us for reasons beyond our control. Further, we may be unable to maintain good working relationships with our landlords, which could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and could result in the loss of customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these leases prior to their expiration dates on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew our lease agreements, we will lose our right to operate these warehouses and be unable to derive revenues from these warehouses and, in the case of ground leases, we forfeit all improvements on the land. We could also lose the customers using these warehouses who are unwilling to relocate to another one of our warehouses, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, unless we purchase the underlying fee interests in these properties, as to which no assurance can be given, we will not share in any increase in value of the land or improvements beyond the term of such lease, notwithstanding any capital we have invested in the applicable warehouse, especially warehouses subject to ground leases. Even if we are able to renew these leases, the terms and other costs of renewal may be less favorable than our existing lease arrangements. Failure to sufficiently increase revenues from customers at these warehouses to offset these projected higher costs could have a material adverse effect on us.. We and our customers face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. We rely extensively on computer systems to manage our business and the services we provide to our customers. As a result, our business is at risk from, and may be impacted by, cybersecurity attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems. Attacks can be both individual and highly organized attempts planned by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password protection, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, frequent backups, a redundant data system for core applications and annual penetration testing; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity attack. A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, customers and vendors. A successful attack could disrupt and affect our business operations, damage our reputation and result in significant remediation and litigation costs. Similarly, our customers rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage their business and thus their businesses are also at risk from, and may be impacted by, cybersecurity attacks. An interruption in the business operations of our customers or in their reputation resulting from a cybersecurity attack could indirectly impact our business operations.. Our properties are designed specifically for use as temperature-controlled warehouses, which could make it difficult for us to reposition or sell these properties.. Our properties are highly specialized temperature-controlled warehouses, many of which are located in secondary or tertiary markets. Such warehouses are often custom-designed to meet specific customer needs. As a result, our warehouses are not well-suited for uses other than temperature-controlled storage. Major renovations and expenditures would be required to convert our temperature-controlled warehouses for most other uses. In the event we experience a significant decline in demand for temperature-controlled storage at any of our warehouses, it could be difficult to reposition or sell these properties on favorable terms, or at all, and the value of our temperature-controlled warehouses may be impaired due to the costs of reconfiguring our temperature-controlled warehouses for alternative purposes and the removal or modification of the specialized systems and equipment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. 22. We depend on third-party trucking service providers to provide transportation services to our customers, and any delays or disruptions in providing these transportation services, or damages caused to products during transportation, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We offer transportation services to our customers primarily on a brokerage basis and do not own meaningful transportation assets, such as trucks or containers. We depend on third-party trucking service providers to provide refrigerated transportation services to our customers. We do not have exclusive or long-term contractual relationships with any of these third-party trucking service providers, and we can provide no assurance that our customers will have uninterrupted or unlimited access to their transportation assets or services. Any delays or disruptions in providing these transportation services to our customers could reduce the confidence our customers have in our ability to provide transportation services and could impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Moreover, in connection with any such delays or disruptions, or if customers' products are damaged or destroyed during transport, we could incur financial obligations or be subject to lawsuits by our customers. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on us.. We will continue to incur significantly increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time and attention to compliance efforts.. We will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of becoming a public company. As a public company with listed equity securities, we need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, including the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC and requirements of the NYSE, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business, operations and financial statements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our management and independent registered public accounting firm to report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Substantial work on our part is required to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. This process is expected to be both costly and challenging.. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and accounting resources and will cause us to continue to incur significant expenses. We may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems, implement additional financial and other controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to public companies could be impaired.. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately determine or disclose our financial results. As a result, our shareholders could lose confidence in our financial results.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We may in the future discover areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in implementing or maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, or that material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not be identified in the future. Furthermore, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting would require our management to devote significant time and attention and incur significant expense to. 23. remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency, and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause shareholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could materially and adversely affect us and lead to a significant decline in the market price of our common shares.. We participate in multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions. To the extent we withdraw from participation in any of these plans, we could face withdrawal liability from our participation therein.. As of December 31, 2017, we participated in seven multiemployer pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our U.S. employees. Approximately half of our employees were participants in such multiemployer pension plans as of December 31, 2017. We make periodic contributions to these plans pursuant to the terms of our collective bargaining agreements to allow the plans to meet their pension benefit obligations.. In the event that we withdraw from participation in any of the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate, the documents governing the applicable plan and applicable law could require us to make an additional contribution to the applicable plan in the amount of the unfunded vested benefits allocable to our participation in the plan, and we would have to reflect that as an expense on our consolidated statement of income and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer pension plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits as of the year in which the withdrawal occurs, and may vary depending on the funded status of the applicable multiemployer pension plan, whether there is a mass withdrawal of all participating employers and whether any other participating employer in the applicable plan withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. Based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability for the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate could have been as much as $319.3 million as of December 31, 2017, of which we estimate that certain of our customers are contractually obligated to make indemnification payments to us for approximately $289.0 million. However, there is no guarantee that, to the extent we incurred any such withdrawal liability, we would be successful in obtaining any indemnification payments therefor.. In the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we could agree to discontinue participation in one or more plans, and in that event we could face a withdrawal liability. Additionally, we could be treated as withdrawing from a plan if the number of our employees participating in the plan is reduced to a certain degree over certain periods of time.. Some multiemployer pension plans, including ones in which we participate, are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. Additionally, changes to multiemployer pension plan laws and regulations could increase our potential cost of withdrawing from one or more multiemployer pension plans.. 24. General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Our performance and value are subject to economic conditions affecting the real estate market, temperature-controlled warehouses in particular, as well as the broader economy.. Our performance and value depend on the amount of revenues earned, as well as the expenses incurred, in connection with operating our warehouses. If our temperature-controlled warehouses do not generate revenues and operating cash flows sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with our real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the revenues from our warehouses. Accordingly, our expenditures may stay constant, or increase, even if our revenues decline. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, and revenues from, and the value of, our properties may be materially and adversely affected by:. • changes in the national, international or local economic climate;. • availability, cost and terms of financing;. • the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers;. • inability to collect storage charges, rent and other fees from customers;. • the ongoing need for, and significant expense of, capital improvements and addressing obsolescence in a timely manner, particularly in older structures;. • changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties in an area;. • customer retention and turnover;. • excess supply in the market area;. • financial difficulties, defaults or bankruptcies by our customers;. • changes in operating costs and expenses and our ability to control rates;. • changes in or increased costs of compliance with governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws, and our potential liability thereunder;. • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance;. • changes in the cost or availability of insurance, including coverage for mold or asbestos;. • unanticipated changes in costs associated with known adverse environmental conditions, newly discovered environmental conditions and retained liabilities for such conditions;. • changes in interest rates or other changes in monetary policy;. • disruptions in the global supply-chain caused by political, regulatory or other factors such as terrorism and political instability; and. • civil unrest, acts of war, terrorist attacks and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses.. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in rates or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing contracts, which could materially and adversely affect us. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our business objectives.. Illiquidity of real estate investments, particularly our specialized temperature-controlled warehouses, could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our business and properties.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and given the specialized nature of our business, our temperature-controlled warehouses may be more illiquid than other real estate investments. This illiquidity is. 25. driven by a number of factors, including the specialized and often customer specific design of our warehouses, the relatively small number of potential purchasers of temperature-controlled warehouses and the location of many of our warehouses in secondary or tertiary markets. As a result, we may be unable to complete an exit strategy or quickly sell properties in our portfolio in response to adverse changes in the performance of our properties or in our business generally. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective buyer would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time it would take to complete the sale of any such property. Such sales might also require us to expend funds to mitigate or correct defects to the property or make changes or improvements to the property prior to its sale. The ability to sell assets in our portfolio is also restricted by certain covenants in our mortgage loan agreements and other credit agreements. Code requirements relating to our status as a REIT may also limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. We could experience uninsured or underinsured losses relating to our warehouses and other assets, including our real property.. We carry insurance coverage on all of our properties in an amount that we believe adequately covers any potential casualty losses. However, there are certain losses, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war or riots, that we are not generally insured against or that we are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. In addition, changes in the cost or availability of insurance could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not covered by insurance (in part or at all), the value of our assets will be reduced by the amount of any such uninsured loss, and we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and potential revenues in these properties. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we may have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future on favorable terms or at all.. In the event of a fire, flood or other occurrence involving the loss of or damage to stored products held by us but belonging to others, we may be liable for such loss or damage. Although we have an insurance program in effect, there can be no assurance that such potential liability will not exceed the applicable coverage limits under our insurance policies. A number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity, such as California, Washington, Oregon and New Zealand, or in flood zones, such as Appleton, Wisconsin and Roanoke, Virginia, in each case exposing them to increased risk of casualty.. If we or one or more of our customers experiences a loss for which we are liable and that loss is uninsured or exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.. We are self-insured for workers' compensation and health insurance under a large deductible program, meaning that we have accrued liabilities in amounts that we consider appropriate to cover losses in these areas. In addition, we maintain excess loss coverage to insure against losses in excess of the reserves that we have established for these claims in amounts that we consider appropriate. However, in the event that our loss experience exceeds our reserves and the limits of our excess loss policies, we could be materially and adversely affected.. 26. We may not be reimbursed for increases in operating expenses and other real estate costs.. We may be limited in our ability to obtain reimbursement from customers under existing warehouse contracts for any increases in operating expenses such as electricity charges, maintenance costs, taxes, including real estate and income taxes, or other real estate-related costs. Unless we are able to offset any unexpected costs with sufficient revenues through new warehouse contracts or customers, increases in these costs would lower our operating margins and could materially and adversely affect us.. We could incur significant costs related to environmental conditions and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations in each of the locations in which we operate, and compliance with these requirements involves significant capital and operating costs. Failure to comply with these environmental requirements can result in civil or criminal fines or sanctions, claims for environmental damages, remediation obligations, the revocation of environmental permits or restrictions on our operations. Future changes in environmental laws, or in the interpretation of those laws, including potential future climate change regulations, such as those affecting electric power providers or regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions, or stricter requirements affecting our operations could result in increased capital and operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, commonly known as CERCLA, or the Superfund law, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the entire cost of investigating, removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the contamination. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for the entire cleanup cost. We may also be subject to environmental liabilities under the regulatory regimes in place in the other countries in which we operate.. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances on our properties, or the failure to properly remediate contaminated properties, could give rise to liens in favor of the government for failure to address the contamination, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell or lease properties or borrow using our properties as collateral. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or our businesses may be operated.. Under environmental laws, a property owner or operator is subject to compliance obligations, potential government sanctions for violations or natural resource damages, claims from private parties for cleanup contribution or other environmental damages and investigation and remediation costs. In connection with the acquisition, ownership or operation of our properties, we may be exposed to such costs. The cost of resolving environmental, property damage or personal injury claims, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of paying fines, or meeting new or stricter environmental requirements or of remediating contaminated properties could materially and adversely affect us.. Nearly all of our properties have been the subject of environmental assessments conducted by environmental consultants at some point in the past. Most of these assessments have not included soil sampling or subsurface investigations. Many of our older properties have not had asbestos surveys. In many instances, we have not conducted further investigations of environmental conditions disclosed in these environmental assessments nor can we be assured that these environmental assessments have identified all potential environmental liabilities associated with our properties. Material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen or may arise after the date of the environmental assessments on our properties. Moreover, there can be no assurance that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose new. 27. material environmental obligations or costs, including the potential effects of climate change or new climate change regulations, (ii) we will not incur material liabilities in connection with both known and undiscovered environmental conditions arising out of past activities on our properties or (iii) our properties will not be materially and adversely affected by the operations of customers, by environmental impacts or operations on neighboring properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or by the actions of parties unrelated to us.. In the future, our customers may demand lower indirect emissions associated with the storage and transportation of frozen and perishable foods, which could lead customers to seek temperature-controlled storage from our competitors. Further, such demand could require us to implement various processes to reduce emissions from our operations in order to remain competitive, which could materially and adversely affect us.. We could incur significant costs under environmental laws relating to the presence and management of asbestos, ammonia and underground storage tanks.. Environmental laws in the United States require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is damaged, is decayed, poses a health risk or is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos and other toxic or hazardous substances. Some of our properties may contain asbestos or asbestos-containing building materials.. Most of our warehouses utilize ammonia as a refrigerant. Ammonia is classified as a hazardous chemical regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA. Releases of ammonia occur at our warehouses from time to time, and any number of unplanned events, including severe storms, fires, earthquakes, vandalism, equipment failure, operational errors, accidents, deliberate acts of employees or third parties, and terrorist acts could result in a significant release of ammonia that could result in injuries, loss of life, property damage and a significant interruption at affected facilities. For example, in 2015, we identified, and reported when required, ammonia releases across refrigeration systems in six of our facilities. These releases resulted in no significant property damage. In 2016, we identified, and reported when required, ammonia releases across refrigeration systems in eight of our facilities. These releases resulted in no significant property damage. Ammonia exposure can also cause damage to our customers' goods stored with us. In June 2015, a release of ammonia occurred at our Dallas, Texas warehouse, resulting in exposure to over 13,000 pallets of customer goods. Although we cannot predict the extent of our liabilities as a result of these incidents, we expect any related product damage claims to be covered by insurance subject to applicable deductibles. Although our warehouses have risk management programs required by the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, or OSHA, the EPA and other regulatory agencies in place, we could incur significant liability in the event of an unanticipated release of ammonia from one of our refrigeration systems. Releases could occur at locations or at times when trained personnel may not be available to respond quickly, increasing the risk of injury, loss of life or property damage. Some of our warehouses are not staffed 24 hours a day and, as a result, we may not respond to intentional or accidental events during closed hours as quickly as we could during open hours, which could exacerbate any injuries, loss of life or property damage. We also could incur liability in the event we fail to report such ammonia releases in a timely fashion.. Environmental laws and regulations subject us and our customers to liability in connection with the storage, handling and use of ammonia and other hazardous substances utilized in our operations. Our warehouses also may have under-floor heating systems, some of which utilize ethylene glycol, petroleum compounds, or other hazardous substances; releases from these systems could potentially contaminate soil and groundwater.. 28. In addition, some of our properties have been operated for decades and have known or potential environmental impacts. Other than in connection with financings, we have not historically performed regular environmental assessments on our properties, and we may not do so in the future. Many of our properties contain, or may in the past have contained, features that pose environmental risks including underground tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances as well as floor drains and wastewater collection and discharge systems, hazardous materials storage areas and septic systems. All of these features create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous substances. Some of our properties are adjacent to or near properties that have known environmental impacts or have in the past stored or handled petroleum products or other hazardous substances that could have resulted in environmental impacts to soils or groundwater that could affect our properties. In addition, former owners, our customers, or third parties outside our control (such as independent transporters) have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that have released or may release petroleum products or other hazardous substances on our properties. Any of these activities or circumstances could materially and adversely affect us.. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover potential environmental liabilities.. We maintain a portfolio environmental insurance policy that provides coverage for sudden and accidental environmental liabilities, subject to the policy's coverage conditions, deductibles and limits, for most of our properties. There is no assurance that future environmental claims will be covered under these policies or that, if covered, the loss will not exceed policy limits. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield an attractive risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we factor the estimated costs of environmental investigation, cleanup and monitoring into the net cost. Further, in connection with property dispositions, we may agree to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. A failure to accurately estimate these costs, or uninsured environmental liabilities, could materially and adversely affect us.. Our properties may contain or develop harmful molds or have other air quality issues, which could lead to financial liability for adverse health effects to our employees or third parties, and costs of remediating the problem.. Our properties may contain or develop harmful molds or suffer from other air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, poor equipment maintenance, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources and other biological contaminants, such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants present above certain levels can cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property, to reduce indoor moisture levels, or to upgrade ventilation systems to improve indoor air quality. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our employees, our customers, employees of our customers and others if property damage or health concerns arise.. 29. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations could adversely affect us and our customers.. The food industry in all jurisdictions in which we operate is subject to numerous government standards and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable government standards and regulations, there can be no assurance that all of our warehouses or our customers' operations are currently in compliance with, or will be able to comply in the future with, all applicable standards and regulations or that the costs of compliance will not increase in the future.. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Our customers' ability to operate and to satisfy their contractual obligations, including those made to us, may be affected by permitting and compliance obligations arising under such laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations could increase their operating costs, result in fines or impose joint and several liability on customers, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contamination, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal.. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards in the future. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require that we or our customers incur material expenditures. In addition, there are various governmental fire, health, safety and similar regulations with which we and our customers may be required to comply and which may subject us and our customers to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines or damages imposed on our customers or us could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, changes in these governmental laws and regulations, or their interpretation by agencies and courts, could occur.. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, or the ADA, generally requires that public buildings, including portions of our warehouses, be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our warehouses, including the removal of access barriers, it could materially and adversely affect us.. Our properties are subject to regulation under OSHA, which requires employers to protect employees against many workplace hazards, such as exposure to harmful levels of toxic chemicals, excessive noise levels, mechanical dangers, heat or cold stress and unsanitary conditions. The cost of complying with OSHA and similar laws enacted by other jurisdictions in which we operate is substantial and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to penalties and potentially to liabilities to employees who may be injured at our warehouses, any of which could be material. Furthermore, any fines or violations that we face under OSHA could expose us to reputational risk.. We face ongoing litigation risks which could result in material liabilities and harm to our business regardless of whether we prevail in any particular matter.. We are a large company operating in multiple U.S. and international jurisdictions, with thousands of employees and business counterparts. As such, there is an ongoing risk that we may become involved in legal disputes or litigation with these parties or others. The costs and liabilities with respect to such legal disputes may be material and may exceed our amounts, if any, accrued for such liabilities and costs. In addition, our defense of legal disputes or resulting litigation could result in the diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business, each of which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Some or all. 30. of the amounts we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of our disputes and litigation may not be covered by insurance.. We face risks stemming from our partial ownership interests in certain properties which could materially and adversely affect the value of our joint venture investments.. We own an interest in one of our properties indirectly through an investment in a joint venture with a third party. We also made an investment in the China JV. In the future, we may make additional investments through joint venture investment vehicles. These investments involve risks not present in investments where a third party is not involved, including the possibility that:. • we and a co-venturer or partner may reach an impasse on a major decision that requires the approval of both parties;. • we may not have exclusive control over the development, financing, management and other aspects of the property or joint venture, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest but opposed by a co-venturer or partner;. • a co-venturer or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with ours;. • a co-venturer or partner may encounter liquidity or insolvency issues or may become bankrupt, which may mean that we and any other remaining co-venturers or partners generally would remain liable for the joint venture's liabilities;. • a co-venturer or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or investment objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT under the Code;. • a co-venturer or partner may take actions that subject us to liabilities in excess of, or other than, those contemplated;. • in certain circumstances, we may be liable for actions of our co-venturer or partner, and the activities of a co-venturer or partner could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, even if we do not control the joint venture;. • our joint venture agreements may restrict the transfer of a co-venturer's or partner's interest or otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;. • our joint venture agreements may contain buy-sell provisions pursuant to which one co-venturer or partner may initiate procedures requiring the other co-venturer or partner to choose between buying the other co-venturer's or partner's interest or selling its interest to that co-venturer or partner;. • if a joint venture agreement is terminated or dissolved, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or investments underlying the joint venture relationship or may need to purchase such interests or investments at a premium to the market price to continue ownership; or. • disputes between us and a co-venturer or partner may result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and prevent our management from focusing their time and attention on our business.. Any of the above could materially and adversely affect the value of our current joint venture investment or any future joint venture investments and potentially have a material adverse effect on us.. 31. Risks Related to Our Debt Financings. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that may limit our financial and operating activities.. As of December 31, 2017, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the IPO and related transactions and the use of the net proceeds from those transactions, we had approximately $1.6 billion of total consolidated indebtedness outstanding and borrowing capacity under our 2018 Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility of $450.0 million less approximately $33.8 million to backstop certain outstanding letters of credit. Our organizational documents contain no limitations regarding the maximum level of indebtedness that we may incur or keep outstanding.. Payments of principal and interest on indebtedness may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to pay distributions to our shareholders at expected levels. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness could have other material and adverse consequences, including, without limitation, the following:. • our cash flows may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;. • we may use a substantial portion of our cash flows to make principal and interest payments and we may be unable to obtain additional financing as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, have a material adverse effect on our ability to capitalize upon acquisition opportunities, fund capital improvements or meet operational needs;. • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness;. • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms or in violation of certain covenants to which we may be subject;. • we may default on our indebtedness by failing to make required payments or violating covenants, which would entitle holders of such indebtedness and other indebtedness with a cross-default provision to accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness and, if such indebtedness is secured, to foreclose on our properties that secure their loans;. • we may be unable to effectively hedge floating rate debt with respect to our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or any successor facilities thereto;. • we are required to maintain certain debt and coverage and other financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our operating and financial flexibility;. • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions may be increased; and. • we may be subject to greater exposure to increases in interest rates for our variable-rate debt and to higher interest expense on future fixed rate debt.. If any one of these events were to occur, we could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.. We are dependent on external sources of capital, the continuing availability of which is uncertain.. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains), and we are subject to tax to the extent our REIT taxable income is not fully distributed. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all of our future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions, development activities and recurring and non-recurring capital improvements, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we intend to rely on third-party. 32. sources of capital to fund a substantial amount of our future capital needs. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all when needed. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage, expose us to the risk of default and impose operating and financial restrictions on us. In addition, any equity financing could be materially dilutive to the equity interests held by our shareholders. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on general market conditions, the market's perception of our growth potential, our leverage, our current and anticipated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and cash distributions to shareholders and the market price of our common shares. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on favorable terms when needed, we may not be able to execute our business and growth strategies, satisfy our debt service obligations, make the cash distributions to our shareholders necessary for us to qualify as a REIT (which would expose us to significant penalties and corporate-level taxation), or fund our other business needs, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments.. As of December 31, 2017, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the IPO and the use of the net proceeds from the IPO, we had $922.8 million of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness that is variable-rate debt, and we may continue to incur variable-rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates on such debt would raise our interest costs, reduce our cash flows and reduce our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Increases in interest rates would also increase our interest expense on future fixed rate borrowings and have the same collateral effects. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments.. Our existing indebtedness contains, and any future indebtedness is likely to contain, covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain activities.. Following the IPO, our indebtedness outstanding  requires, and our future indebtedness is likely to require, us to comply with a number of financial covenants, as well as operational covenants, such as covenants with respect to leverage, interest coverage ratios, borrowing base requirements, incurrence of secured and unsecured indebtedness, creating liens upon our assets, making of certain distributions and investments, engaging in certain strategic transactions, engaging in transactors with our affiliates, disposing of certain assets, amending our organizational documents and other matters. The financial covenants under our 2018 Senior Secured Credit Facilities include a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum borrowing base coverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a minimum borrowing base debt service coverage ratio, a minimum tangible net worth requirement and a maximum recourse secured debt ratio. These covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions that may be in our best interests. In order to be able to make distributions to our shareholders, we must be in compliance with certain financial covenants and there may not be an event of default under such indebtedness. Our failure to meet the covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, which could result in the acceleration of the applicable indebtedness and other indebtedness with a cross-default provision as well as foreclosure upon any of our assets that secure such indebtedness, including equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries and in certain of our real property securing such indebtedness. If any of our assets, including equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries and real property, are foreclosed upon by lenders, or if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, we would be materially and adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, a total of 61 of our warehouses were financed under mortgage loans grouped into two pools. Certain covenants in the mortgage loan agreements place limits on our use of the cash flows associated with each pool, and place other restrictions on our use of the assets included within each pool. In particular, if our subsidiaries that are borrowers under these mortgage loans fail to maintain certain cash flow. 33. minimums or a debt service coverage ratio, the cash generated by those subsidiaries will be restricted and unavailable for us to use, which we refer to as a \"cash trap event.\" The required cash flow minimums vary from pool to pool of the mortgage loans. If the pools under our mortgage loans were to fail to maintain the applicable. cash flow minimums or debt service coverage ratio, our ability to make capital expenditures and distributions to our shareholders would be materially limited. In addition, as a holder of equity interests in the borrowers under each of these pools, our claim to the assets contained in each pool is subordinate to the claims of the holders of the indebtedness under each mortgage loan.. In addition, two of our properties are financed under construction mortgage loans. Certain covenants in the construction loan agreements impose significant restrictions with respect to the construction of the facilities being developed with the proceeds thereof. If we failed to satisfy the covenants or development deadlines under these construction loan agreements, we could be responsible for, among other things, significant guarantee and reimbursement obligations to the lenders thereof. In addition, as a holder of equity interests in the borrowers under each of these loan agreements, our claim to the assets secured thereby is subordinate to the claims of the construction lenders.. Secured indebtedness exposes us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in certain of our subsidiaries or in a property or group of properties or other assets subject to indebtedness, and limits our ability to raise future capital.. We have granted certain of our lenders security interests in substantially all of our assets, including equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries and in certain of our real property. Incurring secured indebtedness, including mortgage indebtedness, increases our risk of asset and property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by our assets, including equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries and in certain of our real property, may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property or other assets securing any loans for which we are in default. Any foreclosure on a mortgaged property or group of properties could have a material adverse effect on the overall value of our portfolio of properties and more generally on us. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the indebtedness secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the indebtedness secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, the fact that substantially all of our assets serve as collateral for existing indebtedness limits our ability to raise future capital on favorable terms, or at all. As a result, our substantial secured indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on us.. Interest rate and other hedging activity exposes us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate.. As of December 31, 2017, we were a party to three interest rate hedges. In addition, we have entered into certain forward contracts and other hedging arrangements in order to fix power costs for anticipated electricity requirements. These hedging transactions expose us to certain risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate and power cost changes. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or cash flows. Should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligation under the hedging agreement. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate and power cost changes could have a material adverse effect on us. When a hedging agreement is required under the terms of a mortgage loan, it is often a condition that the hedge counterparty maintains a specified credit rating. With the current volatility in the financial markets, there is an. 34. increased risk that hedge counterparties could have their credit ratings downgraded to a level that would not be acceptable under the loan provisions. If we were unable to renegotiate the credit rating condition with the lender or find an alternative counterparty with an acceptable credit rating, we could be in default under the loan and the lender could seize that property through foreclosure, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company.. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, as applicable to Maryland real estate investment trusts, certain \"business combinations\" (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in certain circumstances specified under the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland real estate investment trust and any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the trust's then outstanding voting shares or an affiliate or associate of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the trust's then outstanding shares, which we refer to as an \"interested shareholder,\" or an affiliate thereof, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. Thereafter, any such business combination must be approved by two supermajority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the trust's common shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its voting shares. Following the IPO, Yucaipa and the GS Entities each beneficially own more than 10% of our voting shares and would, therefore, be subject to the business combination provisions of the MGCL. However, pursuant to the statute, our board of trustees, by resolution, elected to opt out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL. This resolution may not be modified or repealed by our board of trustees without the approval of our shareholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the matter. Accordingly, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements described above do not apply to a business combination between us and any other person, including Yucaipa or the GS Entities. As a result, any person may be able to enter into business combinations with us, which may not be in your best interest as a shareholder, within five years of becoming an interested shareholder and without compliance by us with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the MGCL.. The \"control share\" provisions of the MGCL provide that \"control shares\" of a Maryland real estate investment trust (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the trust's shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, the trust's officers and the trust's employees who are also the trust's trustees. Our amended and restated bylaws, or our bylaws, contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition provisions of the MGCL any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. This provision may not be amended by our board of trustees without the affirmative vote at a duly called meeting of shareholders of at least a majority of the votes cast on the matter by shareholders entitled to vote generally in the election of trustees.. Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL, or Subtitle 8, permits our board of trustees, without shareholder approval, to implement certain takeover defenses (some of which, such as a classified board, we do not have), if we have a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent trustees. We. 35. have elected not to be subject to Subtitle 8 unless approved by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes cast on the matter by shareholders entitled to vote generally in the election of trustees.. On any vote to opt in to the \"business combination,\" the \"control share\" or the Subtitle 8 provisions of the MGCL, YF ART Holdings (including its affiliates) will vote its common shares for and against the matter in the same proportion as the number of votes cast for and against the proposal to opt in by other shareholders until YF ART Holdings (including its affiliates) ceases to own at least 20% of the outstanding voting power.. Any of the MGCL provisions, if then applicable to us, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change in control which might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Our board of trustees can take many actions even if you and other shareholders disagree with such actions or if they are otherwise not in your best interest as a shareholder.. Our board of trustees has overall authority to oversee our operations and determine our major policies. This authority includes significant flexibility to take certain actions without shareholder approval. For example, our board of trustees can do the following without shareholder approval:. • issue additional shares, which could dilute your ownership;. • amend our declaration of trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue;. • classify or reclassify any unissued shares and set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, which preferences, rights and terms could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control which might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in your best interest as a shareholder;. • employ and compensate affiliates;. • change major policies, including policies relating to investments, financing, growth and capitalization;. • enter into new lines of business or new markets; and. • determine that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to continue to qualify as a REIT.. Any of these actions without shareholder approval could increase our operating expenses, impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, reduce the market value of our real estate assets or otherwise not be in your best interest as a shareholder.. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management.. Our declaration of trust provides that, subject to the rights of holders of one or more classes or series of preferred shares to elect or remove one or more trustees, a trustee may be removed only for \"cause\" (as defined in our declaration of trust), and then only by the affirmative vote of shareholders entitled to cast two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees; provided, however, we anticipate that, pursuant to our new shareholders agreement and the amended YF ART Holdings limited partnership agreement, each of affiliates of Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity have the right to remove a trustee designated by such party, in each case from our board of trustees for any reason. The foregoing provision of our declaration of trust, when coupled with the power of our board of trustees to fill vacant trusteeships and the rights of each of affiliates of Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity to designate an individual to fill a vacancy of a trustee designated by such party, will preclude shareholders from removing incumbent trustees except for cause and by a substantial. 36. affirmative vote and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and may prevent a change in control that is in the best interests of our shareholders.. The REIT ownership limit rules and the related restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our declaration of trust have an anti-takeover effect.. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year (other than the first taxable year for which the election to be treated as a REIT was made). To ensure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this and other tests under the Code, our declaration of trust, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our board of trustees to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and does not permit individuals (including certain entities treated as individuals), other than excepted holders approved in accordance with our declaration of trust, to own, directly or indirectly, more than 9.8% (in value) of our outstanding shares. In addition, our declaration of trust prohibits: (a) any person from beneficially or constructively owning our shares of beneficial interest that would result in our company being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT; (b) any person from transferring our shares of beneficial interest of our company if such transfer would result in our shares of beneficial interest being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons; and (c) any person from beneficially owning our shares of beneficial interest to the extent such ownership would result in our failing to qualify as a \"domestically controlled qualified investment entity\" within the meaning of Section 897(h) of the Code (after taking into account for such purpose the statutory presumptions set forth in Section 897(h)(4)(E) of the Code). Our board of trustees is required to exempt a person (prospectively or retrospectively) from the percentage ownership limit described above (but not the other restrictions) if the person seeking a waiver demonstrates that the waiver would not jeopardize our status as a REIT or violate the other conditions described above.. These ownership limitations are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. Although our declaration of trust requires our board of trustees to grant a waiver of the percentage ownership limit described above if the person seeking a waiver demonstrates that such ownership would not jeopardize our status as a REIT or violate the other conditions described above, these limitations might still delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control which might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise not be in your best interest as a shareholder or result in the transfer of shares acquired in excess of the ownership limits to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, as a result, the forfeiture by the acquirer of the benefits of owning the additional shares.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited.. Our declaration of trust eliminates our trustees' and officers' liability to us and our shareholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our declaration of trust and our bylaws require us to indemnify our trustees and officers and any observer to our board of trustees to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law for liability actually incurred in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, except to the extent that the act or omission of the trustee, officer or observer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was either committed in bad faith or the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, the trustee, officer or observer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or, in the case of any criminal proceeding, the trustee, officer or observer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers. 37. and any observer to our board of trustees than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers and any observer to our board of trustees.. Our significant shareholders, including Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity, and their respective affiliates, will continue to have significant influence over us after the IPO, and their actions might not be in your best interest as a shareholder.. Subsequent to the IPO, investment funds affiliated with Yucaipa and the GS Entities control on a fully diluted basis approximately 38.6% and 16.7%, respectively, of the voting power in us.. Under our shareholders agreement, YF ART Holdings has the right to designate two of the nine members of our board of trustees, so long as YF ART Holdings beneficially owns 10% or more of our fully diluted outstanding shares (as such term is defined in our new shareholders agreement). So long as YF ART Holdings beneficially owns 5% or more (but less than 10%) of our fully diluted outstanding shares it has the right to designate one of the nine members of our board of trustees. The GS Entities have the right to designate one of the nine members of our board of trustees, so long as the GS Entities beneficially own 5% or more of our fully diluted outstanding shares. Also, YF ART Holdings is entitled to appoint an observer to our board of trustees, so long as it beneficially owns 5% or more of our fully diluted outstanding shares.. Affiliates of Yucaipa and the Fortress Entity, through YF ART Holdings, will each remain entitled to designate one of the two members of our board of trustees that YF ART Holdings is entitled to designate pursuant to our shareholders agreement, so long as YF ART Holdings beneficially owns 10% or more of our fully diluted outstanding shares. To the extent that YF ART Holdings has the right to designate only one member of our board of trustees, YF ART Holdings will designate an individual selected by affiliates of Yucaipa unless the number of common shares held by YF ART Holdings and attributable to the Fortress Entity exceeds the number of common shares held by YF ART Holdings and attributable to affiliates of Yucaipa. If affiliates of Yucaipa and the Fortress Entity obtain direct ownership of the common shares currently held by YF ART Holdings, affiliates of Yucaipa and the Fortress Entity will, subject to the limitations described above, remain entitled to these board designation rights as if they continued to hold common shares through YF ART Holdings provided that neither affiliates of Yucaipa nor the Fortress Entity will remain entitled to these board representation rights if its beneficial ownership is less than 5% of our fully diluted outstanding shares.. We and affiliates of Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity entered into a new registration rights agreement in connection with the IPO, pursuant to which they remain entitled to registration rights in respect of our common shares. For further information regarding these agreements, please see \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Shareholders Agreement and Related Agreements\" in Item 13 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect that Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity will continue to exert a significant influence on our business and affairs as a result of their substantial ownership interest in us and the terms of our shareholders agreement. As a result, we expect these parties to continue to influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of our trustees, amendments to our declaration of trust, the removal of our trustees for cause, and the approval of significant transactions, such as mergers or other sales of our company or our assets.. The influence exerted by these shareholders over our business and affairs might not be consistent with your best interests as a shareholder. In addition, this concentration of voting control and influence may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change in control which might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in your best interest as a shareholder.. 38. Additionally, if investment funds affiliated with Yucaipa, which own, on a fully diluted basis, 38.6% of our outstanding common shares, were to hold or be deemed to hold more than 50% of the voting power for the election of our trustees following the completion of this offering, we could be considered a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards. As a result, we could qualify for exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance requirements (including that a majority of the board be independent and the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be composed entirely of independent trustees). We do not intend to rely on any of these exemptions and intend to fully comply with all corporate governance requirements under the NYSE rules. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we would not seek to rely on some or all of the exemptions afforded to a \"controlled company\" (assuming that we remain eligible to do so). If so, you would not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE rules regarding corporate governance.. Our declaration of trust contains provisions permitting certain of our shareholders to engage in the same businesses as ours and renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain business opportunities.. Yucaipa, the GS Entities, Fortress and their respective affiliates have other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our declaration of trust, Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity, and their respective affiliates (and any of their respective officers, trustees, directors, partners, members, managers, employees or other agents, or related persons), will have the right, and will have no obligation to abstain from exercising such right, to: (1) engage or invest, directly or indirectly, in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or our affiliates; (2) do business with any of our customers, suppliers or lessors; or (3) employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, trustees or employees. While we believe that none of Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity owned and operated any temperature-controlled warehouses in competition with us as of December 2017, there is no guarantee they will not do so in the future. If Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity, or any of their respective affiliates or any of their related persons, acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a business opportunity, we, our affiliates and our shareholders will have no interest or expectancy in such opportunity, and they will have no obligation to present, communicate or offer such business opportunity to us, our affiliates or our shareholders. Rather, they will have the right to hold and exploit such opportunity for their own account or to direct, recommend, sell, assign or otherwise transfer such opportunity to any person or entity.. The only exception to our renunciation of business opportunities described above is in the event that a business opportunity is expressly offered to a related person solely in, and as a direct result of, his or her capacity as our trustee, officer or employee. In such cases, our declaration of trust provides that we do not renounce any interest or expectancy that we may have under applicable law in those business opportunities. If our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall be a related person by virtue of his or her respective relationship with Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity or their respective affiliates, then any business opportunity offered to such officer shall be deemed to have been offered solely in, and as a direct result of, such officer's capacity as an officer of our company unless such offer clearly and expressly is presented to such officer solely in, and as a direct result of, his or her capacity as an officer, trustee, director, partner, member, manager, employee or other agent of Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity or their respective affiliates.. Therefore, a trustee, officer or other employee of our company who also serves as a trustee, director, member, partner, manager, officer or other employee of Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity or their respective affiliates may pursue certain business opportunities that may be complementary to, or consistent or competing with, our business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could materially and adversely affect us if attractive business opportunities are allocated by Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity, or any trustee, director, member, partner, manager, officer or other. 39. employee of Yucaipa, the GS Entities or the Fortress Entity or their respective affiliates, to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us.. We may invest in, or co-invest with, our affiliates, which could result in conflicts of interest.. We may in the future make investments in, enter into co-investment or joint venture arrangements with, or otherwise collaborate with and invest in, other firms or entities, which may include our affiliates, including Yucaipa, the GS Entities and Fortress. Such activities could create conflicts of interest that result in actions or consequences that are not in your best interest as a shareholder.. We have fiduciary duties as general partner to our operating partnership, which may result in conflicts of interests in representing your interests as shareholders of our company.. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, and between us and our operating partnership or any partner thereof. Our trustees and officers have duties to our company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. Additionally, we. have fiduciary duties as the general partner to our operating partnership and to its limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our operating partnership, although our operating partnership does not currently have any limited partners that are not our wholly owned subsidiaries. Our duties as a general partner to our operating partnership and any future unaffiliated limited partners may come into conflict with the duties of our trustees and officers to our company and may be resolved in a manner that is not in your best interest as a shareholder.. 40. Risks Related to our Common Shares. Our cash available for distribution to shareholders may not be sufficient to pay distributions at expected levels, or at all, and we may need to increase our borrowings or otherwise raise capital in order to make such distributions; consequently, we may not be able to make such distributions in full.. Our initial annual distributions to our shareholders are expected to be $0.75 per share, prorated in 2018 from the closing date of the IPO. If cash available for distribution generated by our assets for such twelve-month period is less than our estimate or if such cash available for distribution decreases in future periods, we may be unable to make distributions to our shareholders at expected levels, or at all, or we may need to increase our borrowings or otherwise raise capital in order to do so, and there can be no assurance that such capital will be available on attractive terms in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any of the foregoing could result in a decrease in the market price of our common shares. Any distributions made to our shareholders by us will be authorized and determined by our board of trustees in its sole discretion out of funds legally available therefor and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our actual or anticipated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and capital requirements, debt service requirements, financing covenants, restrictions under applicable law and other factors.. Any future debt, which would rank senior to our common shares upon liquidation, or equity securities, which could dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring additional debt, including term loans, borrowings under credit facilities, mortgage loans, commercial paper, senior or subordinated notes and secured notes, and making additional offerings of equity and equity-related securities, including preferred and common shares and convertible or exchangeable securities.. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional offerings of common shares would dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or may reduce the market price of our common shares or both. Additionally, any preferred shares or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common shares and may result in dilution to holders of our common shares. Because our decision to incur debt or issue equity or equity-related securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk that our future capital raising will materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and dilute the value of their holdings in us.. Common shares eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on the market price of our common shares.. The market price of our common shares could decline as a result of sales or resales of a large number of our common shares in the market, or the perception that such sales or resales could occur. These sales or resales, or the possibility that these sales or resales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell our common shares in the future at a desired time and at an attractive price. Subsequent to the IPO, 142,475,349 common shares are issued and outstanding, and no Series A preferred shares, Series B preferred shares or Series C preferred shares are issued and outstanding. The 52,095,000 common shares sold in the IPO are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, by persons other than our trustees and executive officers and other affiliates, including Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity.. 41. We, our executive officers, trustees, trustee nominees, YF ART Holdings, the GS Entities, the Fortress Entity and Charm Progress have agreed not to dispose of or hedge any common shares or securities convertible into, exchangeable for, exercisable for, or repayable with common shares for 180 days after the IPO date without first obtaining the written consent of the representatives of the underwriters, subject to certain exceptions and except for common shares sold by the selling shareholders in connection with the IPO. When the restrictions under the lock-up arrangements expire or are waived, the related common shares (or securities convertible into, exchangeable for, exercisable for, or repayable with common shares) will be available for resale, in some cases subject to the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as described below.. Following the IPO, the 88,275,808 common shares beneficially owned by our trustees, executive officers and other affiliates, including Yucaipa and the GS Entities, were \"restricted securities\" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and may not be sold in the absence of registration under the Securities Act unless an exemption from registration is available, including the exemptions contained in Rule 144. All of these common shares subject to lock-up agreements will be eligible for resale following the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period referred to above.. The terms of our registration rights agreement include provisions for demand registration rights in favor of YF ART Holdings, the GS Entities and, if and when it holds common shares directly, the Fortress Entity and their respective affiliates that hold common shares directly (including any affiliate of Yucaipa that holds common shares directly). Pursuant to these registration rights, these shareholders will be entitled to cause us, subject to their consultation with a coordination committee (as such committee is described under \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Shareholders Agreement and Related Agreements\") and, at our own expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering sales of our common shares held by them. If any of these shareholders require that we register our common shares held by them, affiliates of Yucaipa, the GS Entities and the Fortress Entity, as the case may be, may request that their common shares be included in such registration in proportion to the common shares held by the shareholder requiring the registration that are included in the registration.. Pursuant to the terms of its investment in YF ART Holdings, the Fortress Entity is entitled to receive, by February 2022 (or earlier if YF ART Holdings is dissolved prior to that date), the return of its investment plus an annual preferred return thereon, as well as a to-be-determined percentage of our common shares owned by YF ART Holdings. As of December 31, 2017, the Fortress Entity's investment in YF ART Holdings, including the preferred return, was approximately $524.9 million, and YF ART Holdings owned 69,342,769 of our common shares (excluding common shares issuable upon exercise of YF ART Holdings' warrants), of which 10,901,069 common shares were attributable to the Fortress Entity. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - The Fortress Entity Contribution Agreement\" for additional information. In order to meet YF ART Holdings' return on investment and annual preferred return obligations to the Fortress Entity under the YF ART Holdings limited partnership agreement, the general partner of YF ART Holdings would likely sell a number of our common shares held by YF ART Holdings that are not attributable to the Fortress Entity, the number of which could be significant depending on the then prevailing market price for our common shares at the times of any such sales, and such sales of common shares could materially and adversely affect the then prevailing market price of our common shares. Any such sales would also reduce the percentage of our common shares beneficially owned by investment funds affiliated with Yucaipa.. In addition, in connection with the IPO, we filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-8 covering common shares issuable pursuant to options and restricted stock units outstanding under our equity incentive plans in existence prior to the IPO, and our 2017 Equity Incentive Plan that was enacted in connection with the IPO.. 42. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future issuances, sales or resales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future issuances, sales or resales, on the market price of our common shares. The market price of our common shares may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by certain of our shareholders lapse. Issuances, sales or resales of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that such issuances, sales or resales could occur, may materially and adversely affect the then prevailing market price for our common shares.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us, our industry or the real estate industry generally or downgrade the outlook of our common shares, the market price of our common shares could decline.. The trading market for our common shares will depend in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about our company, our industry and the real estate industry generally. One or more analysts could downgrade the outlook for our common shares or issue other negative commentary about our company, our industry or the real estate industry generally. Furthermore, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the market price of our common shares could decline and cause you to lose all or a portion of your investment.. REIT and Tax Related Risks. Failure to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would have a material adverse effect on us.. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. Our qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements, some on an annual and quarterly basis, established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and which involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We expect that our current organization and methods of operation will enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT, but we may not so qualify or we may not be able to remain so qualified in the future. In addition, U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time, potentially with retroactive effect. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act, or PATH Act, was enacted in December 2015, and included numerous changes in the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to REITs, and comprehensive tax legislation passed on December 22, 2017, which is commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, which is fully described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, makes fundamental changes to the individual and corporate tax laws that will materially impact us and our shareholders. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could materially and adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or materially and adversely affect our company and shareholders.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our REIT taxable income at regular corporate rates, and would not be allowed to deduct dividends paid to our shareholders in computing our REIT taxable income. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we first failed to qualify as a REIT. The additional tax liability from the failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for investment or distribution to our shareholders. This would materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to our shareholders. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.. 43. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet annual distribution requirements, which could result in material harm to our company if they are not met.. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, among other requirements, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gains. In addition, if we fail to distribute to our shareholders during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income for such year; (b) 95% of our capital gain net income for such year; and (c) any undistributed REIT taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of (i) the amounts actually distributed by us and (ii) retained amounts on which we pay U.S. federal income tax at the corporate level. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the requirements of the Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our U.S. federal income tax obligation. However, differences between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or raise capital on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the distribution requirements of the Code. Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between REIT taxable income and available cash. Such assets include rental real estate that has been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings. Further, under amendments to the Code made by TCJA, income must be accrued for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than when such income is taken into account as revenue in our financial statements, subject to certain exceptions, which could also create mismatches between REIT taxable income and the receipt of cash attributable to such income. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our REIT taxable income could cause us to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions; (2) raise capital on unfavorable terms; or (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, expansions or developments, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund our operations. Under certain circumstances, covenants and provisions in our existing and future debt instruments may prevent us from making distributions that we deem necessary to comply with REIT requirements. Our inability to make required distributions as a result of such covenants could threaten our status as a REIT and could result in material adverse tax consequences for our company and shareholders.. We conduct a portion of our business through TRSs, which are subject to certain tax risks.. We have established Taxable Real-estate Subsidiaries, or TRSs, and may establish others in the future. Despite our qualification as a REIT, our TRSs must pay income tax on their taxable income. As a result of the enactment of the TCJA, effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 our domestic TRSs are subject to U.S. federal income tax on their taxable income at a maximum rate of 21% (as well as applicable state and local income tax), but net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of TRS losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may be deducted only to the extent of 80% of TRS taxable income in the carryforward year (computed without regard to the NOL deduction). In contrast to prior law, which permitted unused NOL carryforwards to be carried back two years and forward 20 years, TCJA provides that losses arising in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017 can no longer be carried back but can be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, we must comply with various tests to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and our income from, and investments in, our TRSs generally do not constitute permissible income and investments for certain of these tests. No more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. Because TRS securities do not qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test described herein, and because we own other assets that do not, or may not, qualify for the 75% asset test, the 75% asset test may effectively limit the value of our TRS securities to less than 20% of our total assets. Our dealings with our TRSs may materially and adversely affect our REIT qualification. Furthermore, we may be subject to a. 44. 100% penalty tax, or our TRSs may be denied deductions, to the extent our dealings with our TRSs are not deemed to be arm's length in nature or are otherwise not permitted under the Code.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate certain of our investments.. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We may be required to make distributions to our shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may, for instance, hinder our ability to make certain otherwise attractive investments or undertake other activities that might otherwise be beneficial to us and our shareholders, or may require us to raise capital or liquidate investments in unfavorable market conditions and, therefore, may hinder our performance.. As a REIT, at the end of each quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investments in securities (other than cash, cash items, government securities, securities issued by a TRS and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than cash, cash items, government securities, securities issued by a TRS and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering material adverse tax consequences. The need to comply with the 75% asset test and 20% TRS securities test on an ongoing basis potentially could require us in the future to limit the future acquisition of, or to dispose of, nonqualifying assets, limit the future expansion of our TRSs' assets and operations or dispose of or curtail TRS assets and operations, which could adversely affect our business and could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.. Future changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws are proposed regularly. Additionally, the REIT rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which may result in revisions to regulations and interpretations in addition to statutory changes. If enacted, certain such changes could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. In particular, TCJA, which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals, corporations (both regular C corporations as well as corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs), and the taxation of taxpayers with overseas assets and operations. A number of changes that affect noncorporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless Congress acts to extend them. These changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are adverse or potentially adverse compared to prior law. To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. It is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent. There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future.. 45. Other legislative proposals could be enacted in the future that could affect REITs and their shareholders. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of TCJA and any other potential tax law changes on an investment in our common shares.. Distributions payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to certain other corporate distributions, potentially making an investment in our company less advantageous for certain persons than an investment in an entity with different tax attributes.. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable by non-REIT corporations to certain non-corporate U.S. stockholders is generally 20%, and a 3.8% Medicare tax may also apply. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Commencing with taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and continuing through 2025, TCJA temporarily reduces the effective tax rate on ordinary REIT dividends (i.e., dividends other than capital gain dividends and dividends attributable to certain qualified dividend income received by us) for U.S. holders of our common shares that are individuals, estates or trusts by permitting such holders to claim a deduction in determining their taxable income equal to 20% of any such dividends they receive. Taking into account TCJA's reduction in the maximum individual federal income tax rate from 39.6% to 37%, this results in a maximum effective rate of regular income tax on ordinary REIT dividends of 29.6% through 2025 (as compared to the 20% maximum federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income received from a non-REIT corporation). The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay distributions. This could materially and adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common shares.. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes, which would reduce our funds available for distribution to our shareholders.. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes. For example, net income from a \"prohibited transaction\" will be subject to a 100% tax. In. addition, we may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid income and excise taxes. We may also decide to retain certain gains from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such gains. In that event, our shareholders would be required to include such gains in income and would receive a corresponding credit for their share of taxes paid by us. Any net taxable income earned directly by a TRS will be subject to U.S. federal and state corporate income tax. We may also be subject to state, local, or foreign taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnership or the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any taxes we pay will reduce our funds available for distribution to our shareholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into either to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain (or any property which generates such income or gain) that constitutes \"qualifying income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs, does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the Code and Treasury Regulations. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-. 46. qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. The use of a TRS could increase the cost of our hedging activities (because our TRS would be subject to tax on income or gain resulting from hedges entered into by it) or expose us to greater risks than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, net losses in any of our TRSs will generally not provide any tax benefit except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in the TRSs.. If our operating partnership fails to qualify as a disregarded entity or a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.. Our operating partnership is currently treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Following the admission of any additional limited partners, we intend that the operating partnership will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a disregarded entity or a partnership, our operating partnership will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, for all tax periods during which the operating partnership is treated as a disregarded entity, we will be required to take all of the operating partnership's income into account in computing our taxable income. For all tax periods during which the operating partnership is treated as a partnership, each of its partners, including us, will be allocated that partner's share of the operating partnership's income. Following the admission of additional limited partners, no assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of our operating partnership as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership as an association taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT, which would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. Also, our operating partnership would then be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its funds available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us.. 47"
