[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Set forth below is a description of risk factors related to the Company’s business, provided to enable investors to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, certain risks and uncertainties the Company faces in conducting its business. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Report, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are also applicable to forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.. 13. Table of Contents. Changes in general business, economic and political conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business.. Our earnings and financial condition are affected by general business, economic and political conditions. For example, a depressed economic environment increases the likelihood of lower employment levels and recession, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the national and local economies in which we operate. Political conditions can also affect our earnings through the introduction of new regulatory schemes and changes in tax laws.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of customers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment not only in the markets where we operate but also in the state of Iowa generally and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors: economic growth; efficient capital markets; low inflation; low unemployment; high business and investor confidence; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors.. Economic conditions in our market, the state of Iowa, and the United States have generally improved during the last several years. There can be no assurance, however, that this improvement will continue or occur at a meaningful rate. In particular, Company management is seeing weakness in the Iowa agricultural economy as a result of the current low grain prices; however, favorable yields in 2017 are generally providing break even cash flows for most of the Company’s agricultural borrowers. Stagnant or declining economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Fair values of investments in the Company’s securities portfolio may adversely change.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $498.3 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of those securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of an investment, rating agency downgrades of the securities, reinvestment risk, liquidity risk, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause us to recognize an other than temporary impairment (OTTI) in future periods and result in realized losses that negatively impact earnings. The success of any investment activity is affected by general economic conditions. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we hold securities could reduce our liquidity and stockholders' equity. To mitigate these risks, we have access to lines of credit that provide additional liquidity, if needed.. Our investment securities are analyzed quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, any of the securities have OTTI. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to have OTTI and is credit loss related, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our earnings and capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to have OTTI when it appears unlikely that we will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. In addition to credit losses, losses are recognized for a security having an unrealized loss if we have the intent to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before collection of the principal amount.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully manage credit risk.. The operation of our business requires us to manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms, and that the collateral securing repayment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to ensure repayment. In addition, there are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. In order to successfully manage credit risk, we must, among other things, maintain disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensure that our bankers follow those standards. The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as an attempt to attract higher yielding loans, a lack of discipline or diligence by our employees in underwriting and monitoring loans, our inability to adequately adapt policies and procedures to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting borrowers may negatively impact the quality of our loan portfolio, result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs and necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. As a result, our inability to successfully manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. The commercial real estate loan portfolio is a significant part of the Company’s business.. Commercial real estate loans were a significant portion of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017. The market value of real estate securing these loans can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that was anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause an increase in charge-offs, resulting in the need to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition.. If the Company’s actual loan losses exceed the allowance for loan losses or increase significantly, the Company’s net income will decrease.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level believed to be adequate to absorb estimated losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; credit loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio.. Determination of the allowance is inherently subjective as it requires significant estimates and management’s judgment of credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. Also, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses or increase significantly; we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance. Any increases in provisions will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.. Short-term federal funds interest rates have risen 0.75% in 2017, while longer term rates (10-20 years) are relatively unchanged in 2017. This increase in short-term rates has negatively impacted the Company’s net interest margin as interest expense increases more quickly than interest income. Our earning assets (primarily our loan and investment portfolio) have longer maturities than our interest bearing liabilities (primarily our deposits and other borrowings). Therefore, in a rising interest rate environment, interest expense will increase more quickly than interest income, as the interest bearing liabilities reprice more quickly than earning assets, placing downward pressure on the net interest margin. A reduction in the net interest margin could negatively affect our results of operations, including earnings. In response to this challenge, we model quarterly the changes in income that would result from various changes in interest rates. Management believes our earning assets have the appropriate maturity and repricing characteristics to optimize earnings and interest rate risk positions.. The Company may have difficulty continuing to grow, and even if we do grow, our growth may strain our resources and limit our ability to expand operations successfully.. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow in both loans and deposits; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or be able to grow at all.  In addition, our future success will depend on competitive factors and on the ability of our senior management to continue to maintain an appropriate system of internal controls and procedures and manage a growing number of customer relationships.  We may not be able to implement changes or improvements to these internal controls and procedures in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls.  Consequently, continued growth, if achieved, may place a strain on our operational infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel and other skilled employees.. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills of our management team and our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key officers and employees. Our senior management team has significant industry experience, and their knowledge and relationships would be difficult to replace. Leadership changes will occur from time to time, and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. Competition for senior executives and skilled personnel in the financial services and banking industry is intense, which means the cost of hiring, incentivizing and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase. We need to continue to attract and retain key personnel and to recruit qualified individuals to succeed existing key personnel to ensure the continued growth and successful operation of our business. In addition, as a provider of commercial and agricultural banking services, we must attract and retain qualified banking personnel to continue to grow our business, and competition for such personnel can be intense. Our ability to effectively compete for senior executives and other qualified personnel by offering competitive compensation and benefit arrangements may be restricted by applicable banking laws and regulations. The loss of the services of any senior executive or other key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to attract and retain personnel with appropriate skills and knowledge to support our business, we may offer a variety of benefits, which could reduce our earnings or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures, errors, data security breaches and customer or employee fraud.. There have been a number of publicized cases involving errors, fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years.  Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information.  Employee fraud, errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation.  It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.  Employee errors could also subject us to civil claims for negligence.. Although we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures designed to reduce the risk of loss from employee or customer fraud or misconduct and employee errors as well as insurance coverage to mitigate against some operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud; these internal controls may fail to prevent or detect such an occurrence, or such an occurrence may not be insured or exceed applicable insurance limits.. In addition, there have also been a number of cases where financial institutions have been the victim of fraud related to unauthorized wire and automated clearinghouse transactions.  The facts and circumstances of each case vary but generally involve criminals posing as customers ( i.e., stealing bank customers’ identities) to transfer funds out of the institution quickly in an effort to place the funds beyond recovery prior to detection.  Although we have policies and procedures in place to verify the authenticity of our customers and prevent identity theft, we can provide no assurances that these policies and procedures will prevent all fraudulent transfers.  In addition, although we have safeguards in place, it is possible that our computer systems could be infiltrated by hackers or other intruders resulting in loss, destruction or misuse of our data or confidential information about our customers.  We can provide no assurances that these safeguards will prevent all unauthorized infiltrations or breaches.  Identity theft, successful unauthorized intrusions and similar unauthorized conduct could result in reputational damage and financial losses to the Company.. An impairment charge of goodwill or other intangibles could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.. Because the Company has grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and intangible assets are included in the consolidated assets. Goodwill and intangible assets were $7.9 million as of December 31, 2017.  Under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we are required to test the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at least annually or sooner if events occur that indicate impairment could exist. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a sustained decline in a reporting unit’s fair value, legal and regulatory factors, operating performance indicators, competition and other factors. GAAP requires us to assign and then test goodwill at the reporting unit level. If over a sustained period of time we experience a decrease in our stock price and market capitalization, which may serve as an estimate of the fair value of our reporting unit, this may be an indication of impairment. If the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its net book value, we may be required to record goodwill impairment charges in the future. In addition, if the revenue and cash flows generated from any of our other intangible assets is not sufficient to support its net book value, we may be required to record an impairment charge. The amount of any impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken.. 16. Table of Contents. Loans to agricultural-related borrowers are subject to factors beyond the Company’s control, including fluctuations in commodity and livestock prices and other risks, which could negatively impact the Company’s loan portfolio.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans to borrowers who are directly or indirectly affected by the health of the Iowa agricultural economy. During 2016 and 2017, the agricultural economy has experienced historically low commodity and livestock prices which have placed downward pressure on cash flow and profits from agricultural activities. An extended period of low commodity and/or livestock prices, together with other risks to which our agricultural borrowers are subject, including poor weather conditions, higher input costs and changes in governmental support programs, could result in reduced cash flows and profit margins, negatively affecting these borrowers and making it more difficult for them to repay their loan obligations to us. A general decline in the agricultural economy could also negatively affect us by reducing the value of agricultural real estate which secures some of our agricultural loans, creating the potential for greater losses if these borrowers are unable to repay their loans and we are forced to rely on this collateral. Moreover, a general decline in the agricultural economy could also negatively impact some of our commercial borrowers whose businesses are directly or indirectly dependent on the health of the agricultural economy. All of these risks, which are beyond our control, could produce losses in our loan portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, or changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how the Company reports our results of operations and financial condition.. Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our results of operation and financial condition.  Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results.  Any changes in our accounting policies could materially affect our financial statements.  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, the SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change positions on how these standards should be applied.  Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially affect how we report our results of operations and financial condition.  We may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently and retroactively, which may result in the Company being required to restate prior period financial statements in material amounts. In particular, the FASB issued a new rule requiring companies to estimate current expected credit losses. The rule, which is a major change for banking organizations, becomes effective for the Company on January 1, 2020. The new standard is likely to result in more timely recognition of credit losses than under the previous incurred loss model, and the Company is evaluating the extent to which the new rule will affect its results of operations.. The inability to maintain adequate liquidity may adversely affect the Company’s business.. Maintaining adequate liquidity is essential to the banking business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowing, sale of securities or other sources could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. Access to funding sources in amounts necessary to finance our activities or with terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets or adverse regulatory action taken against us. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations of the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the challenges facing the industry.. We maintain liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other short-term funding sources, including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB), Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) overnight borrowings and purchased federal funds. If economic conditions change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, we might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest income, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in us realizing losses on such sales. Either of these situations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.. The Company’s operations are concentrated in Iowa.. Our operations are concentrated primarily in central and north central Iowa. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations may correlate to the economic conditions in this area. Any deterioration in economic conditions in central or north central Iowa, particularly in the industries on which the area depends (including agriculture which, in turn, is dependent upon commodity prices, weather conditions and government support programs), may adversely affect the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services, and accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. The Company faces competition from larger financial institutions.. The banking and financial services business in our market area continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in regulations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in technology and product delivery systems; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers.. It may be difficult for us to compete effectively in the market, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. Our strategic planning efforts continue to focus on capitalizing on our strengths in local markets while working to identify opportunities for improvement to gain competitive advantages.. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends upon earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers, investors, and employees. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business. Harm to our reputation could arise from numerous sources, including employee misconduct, compliance failures, litigation, breach of information security, or governmental investigations, among other things. In addition, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation, breach of information security, and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which could lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. Adverse publicity about us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our business. Should any events or circumstances that could undermine our reputation occur, there can be no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that we may incur in addressing such issues would not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risk related to the Company’s stock.. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is relatively limited compared to those of companies with larger capitalization listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the NASDAQ Global Markets, the New York Stock Exchange or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. A change in the supply or demand for our common stock, or other events affecting our business, may have a more significant impact on the price of our stock than would be the case for more actively traded companies.. Changes in technology could be costly.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and there is a risk we could become less competitive if we are unable to take advantage of these improvements due to the cost limitations or otherwise.. A breach of information security, compliance breach, or error by one of the Company’s agents or vendors could negatively affect the Company’s reputation and business.. We depend on data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. A cyber-attack on our systems could result in the theft, loss or destruction of our information or the theft or improper use of confidential information about our customers, any of which could harm our reputation. We cannot be certain all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards which have been installed. We also outsource certain key aspects of our data processing and communication to certain third-party providers. While we have selected these third-party providers carefully, we cannot control their actions or their degree of compliance with their own systems of internal control. If information security is breached, or one of our service providers or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damage to our customers or others. If information security is breached either on our systems or those of our vendors, our financial condition, results of operations, reputation and future prospects could be adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Our accounting policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure they comply with GAAP and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances. The application of that chosen accounting policy or method might result in us reporting different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. If management's estimates or assumptions are incorrect, we may experience a material loss.. We have identified three accounting policies as being \"critical\" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to (1) the fair value and possible impairment losses on investment securities available for sale, (2) the allowance for loan losses, and (3) impairment of goodwill. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates required to apply these policies, no assurance can be given that application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the reporting of different amounts of the fair value of securities available for sale, the allowance for loan losses, goodwill valuation and, accordingly, net income.. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements.  These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in these standards are continuously occurring, and given the current economic and regulatory environment, more significant changes may occur.  The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Current and future government regulations may increase the Company’s costs of doing business.. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. We are subject to extensive supervision of, and examination by, federal and state regulatory authorities which may limit our growth and the return to our shareholders by restricting certain activities, such as:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe payment of dividends to our shareholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe payment of dividends to the Company by the Banks;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpossible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestment policies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloans and interest rates on loans;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterest rates paid on deposits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpansion of branch offices; and/or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possibility to provide or expand securities or trust services.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law.  The Dodd-Frank Act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and, among many other things, established the federal BCFP and required the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many significant rules and regulations. Compliance with the law and regulations has resulted in additional costs, and not all the rules and regulations have been finalized.. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any changes may have on future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with future regulatory requirements may adversely affect our net income."                      
