[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Products and the Regulatory Approval and Clinical Development of our Product Candidates. We depend heavily on sales of our first product, migalastat HCl, in the EU. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain approval from the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities, or if we are unable to commercialize migalastat HCl successfully, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of migalastat HCl for the treatment of Fabry disease and rely upon sales of migalastat HCl primarily in the EU. Our ability to generate material product revenues, which may not occur for the foreseeable future, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval, and commercialization of migalastat HCl. We began the commercial launch of migalastat HCl in the EU in May 2016 and continue to seek commercial approval in multiple jurisdictions, including the United States and Japan. Any adverse market event with respect to migalastat HCl, including failure to obtain sufficient market acceptance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our sales of migalastat HCl were to decrease, or such sales were substantially or completely displaced in the market, if we are unable to achieve sufficient market acceptance of migalastat HCl by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community, or if we fail to receive commercial approval in any additional jurisdictions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if migalastat HCl or similar products from our competitors were to become the subject of litigation and/or an adverse governmental action requiring us or such competitors, as applicable, to cease sales of migalastat HCl, such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any delay or impediment in our ability to obtain regulatory approval in any region, such as the U.S. or Japan, to commercialize, or, if approved, obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-parties, including government payors, for migalastat HCl may cause us to be unable to meet our revenue guidance or to generate the revenues necessary to continue our research and development pipeline activities, thereby adversely affecting our business and our prospects for future growth.. Further, the success of migalastat HCl will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. <U+0095> obtaining a sufficiently broad label in each territory that would not unduly restrict patient access;     <U+0095> FDA and PMDA approvals for migalastat HCl;    <U+0095> continuing to build and maintain an infrastructure capable of supporting product sales, marketing, and distribution of migalastat HCl in the EU, US, Japan and other territories where we pursue commercialization directly;    <U+0095> establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers;    <U+0095> establishing commercial distribution agreements with third party distributors;. -29-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> launching commercial sales of migalastat HCl, where approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others;     <U+0095> acceptance of migalastat HCl, where approved, by patients, the medical community and third party payors;     <U+0095> the regulatory approval pathway that we pursue for migalastat HCl in the U.S.;    <U+0095> effectively competing with other therapies;    <U+0095> a continued acceptable safety profile of migalastat HCl;    <U+0095> obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity;    <U+0095> protecting our rights in our intellectual property portfolio; and    <U+0095> obtaining a commercially viable price for our products.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize migalastat HCl, which would materially harm our business.. If we are not able to obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product or product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired.. Our product and product candidates, including migalastat HCl, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, commercialization and reimbursement are subject to comprehensive regulation by the EMA, the PMDA, the FDA, and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. As of December 31, 2017, we have obtained regulatory approval to market migalastat in the EU, Switzerland, Israel, Iceland, Liechtenstein, South Korea, Canada, and Australia. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for our product and product candidates will prevent us from commercializing our product in jurisdictions beyond those in which we have obtained regulatory approval for our product or in any jurisdictions for our product candidates.. We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to obtain marketing approvals for product candidates and are and will need to rely on third party contract research organizations, or CROs, to assist us in this process. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may determine that migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates are not effective or only moderately effective, or have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, safety profiles or other characteristics that preclude us from obtaining marketing approval or that prevent or limit commercial use.. Obtaining approval for our product candidates is highly uncertain and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval in any or all jurisdictions. The review processes and the processes of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, EMA and PMDA, are extensive, lengthy, expensive, and uncertain, and. -30-. Table of Contents. such regulatory authorities may delay, limit, or deny approval of migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates for many reasons, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> our failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authorities that migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates are safe and effective for a particular indication;    <U+0095> the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or other efficacy or safety parameters required by the applicable regulatory authorities for approval;    <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct, or implementation of our clinical trials or conclude that the data fail to meet statistical or clinical significance;    <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that the product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;    <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials, and may reject conclusions from preclinical studies or clinical trials, or determine that primary or secondary endpoints from clinical trials were not met, or reject safety conclusions from such studies or trials;     <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may not accept data generated at one or more of our clinical trial sites;     <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may determine that we did not properly oversee our clinical trials or follow the regulatory authority's advice or recommendations in designing and conducting our clinical trials;    <U+0095> an advisory committee, if convened by the applicable regulatory authority, may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the applicable regulatory authority require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions, or even if an advisory committee, if convened, makes a favorable recommendation, the respective regulatory authority may still not approve the product candidate; and     <U+0095> the applicable regulatory authority may identify deficiencies in the chemistry, manufacturing, and control sections of our application, our manufacturing processes, facilities, or analytical methods or those of our third party contract manufacturers, and this may lead to significant delays in the approval of our product candidates or to the rejection of our applications altogether.. The process of obtaining marketing approvals is expensive, may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical, or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit, or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable.. -31-. Table of Contents. If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA, EMA, PMDA or other foreign regulatory authorities, or do not otherwise produce favorable results, we may experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. In connection with seeking marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete, and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their products.. For example, if the FDA ultimately decides not to approve migalastat HCI NDA, we may need to complete additional Phase 3 clinical trial(s) and may need to expend significantly more capital to pursue FDA approval of migalastat HCl. Similarly, we do not have a defined regulatory pathway for our lead biologic product ATB200/AT2221, which could include accelerated or standard pathways is the US and EU. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of migalastat HCl, ATB200/AT2221 or any other product candidate that we develop beyond those tests and trials that we contemplate; if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing; if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive; or if there are safety concerns, we may:. <U+0095> choose not to seek regulatory approval in the U.S.;    <U+0095> be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;    <U+0095> not obtain marketing approval at all;    <U+0095> obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired;     <U+0095> obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, including boxed warnings;     <U+0095> be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements, safety strategies or restrictions, such as a requirement of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS; or    <U+0095> have the product removed from the market after obtaining regulatory approval.. If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including:. <U+0095> clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;    <U+0095> the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or patients may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. -32-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> we may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect any statistically significant treatment effects;    <U+0095> our third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;    <U+0095> regulators, institutional review boards, or independent ethics committees may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;    <U+0095> we may have delays in reaching or fail to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;    <U+0095> we may have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;    <U+0095> regulators, institutional review boards, or independent ethics committees may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;     <U+0095> the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;    <U+0095> the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; or    <U+0095> our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators, regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees to suspend or terminate the trials.. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant preclinical study or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates, allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, or impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, and so may harm our business and results of operations.. If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials. Each of our diseases that our lead product candidates are intended to treat are characterized by small patient populations, which could result in slow enrollment of clinical trial participants. For example, the entry criteria for one of our Phase 3 clinical trials in migalastat HCl for Fabry disease to support approval in the United States (Study 011) required that patients must have a genetic mutation that we believe is responsive to migalastat HCl, and may not have received ERT in the past or must have stopped treatment for at least six months prior to enrolling in the study. As a result, enrollment of the clinical trial lasted for over two years. In addition, our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that could be competitive with our product candidates. As a result, potential clinical trial sites may elect to dedicate their limited resources to participation in our competitors' clinical trials and not ours, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors' product candidates.. Patient enrollment is affected by other factors including:. <U+0095> severity of the disease under investigation;. -33-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> eligibility criteria for the clinical trial in question;    <U+0095> perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study;    <U+0095> efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;    <U+0095> patient referral practices of physicians;    <U+0095> the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and    <U+0095> proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients.. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which would cause the value of the company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in any of our clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product, product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on a product, product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on research programs and product candidates for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products.. We have based our research and development efforts on our Chaperone-Advanced Replacement Therapy (\"CHART\") platform technologies to develop next-generation ERT products for Fabry, Pompe, and other LSDs. Notwithstanding our large investment to date and anticipated future expenditures in proprietary technologies, we have not yet developed, and may never successfully develop, any marketed drugs using this approach. As a result of pursuing the development of our product and product candidates using our proprietary technologies, we may fail to develop products or product candidates or address indications based on other scientific approaches that may offer greater commercial potential or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development.. Initial results from a clinical trial do not ensure that the trial will be successful and success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later-stage clinical trials.. We will only obtain regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable non-U.S. regulatory authority, in well-designed and conducted clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and extremely expensive processes with uncertain results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials may occur at any stage of testing.. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and initial results from a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. We cannot be assured that these trials will ultimately be successful. In addition, patients may not be compliant with their dosing regimen or trial protocols or they may withdraw from the clinical trial at any time for any reason. For example, we recently reported preliminary data from a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of. -34-. Table of Contents. ATB200/AT2221 in Pompe disease. The preliminary data is based on a small patient sample and reported before completion of the study and therefore may not be predictive of future results, that the results of additional preliminary data or data from the completed study or any future study may not yield results that are consistent with the preliminary data presented, that we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of ATB200/AT2221, that later study results may not support further development, or even if such later results are favorable, that we will not be able to successfully complete the development of, obtain accelerated, conditional or standard regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize ATB200/AT2221.. In addition, while the clinical trials of our product candidates are designed based on the available relevant information, in view of the uncertainties inherent in drug development, such clinical trials may not be designed with focus on indications, patient populations, dosing regimens, safety or efficacy parameters or other variables that will provide the necessary safety or efficacy data to support regulatory approval to commercialize the resulting product candidates. This is particularly the case for ATB200/AT2221 where we do not yet have a defined regulatory pathway and there can be no assurance that regulators in the US, EU, Japan or other jurisdictions will accept the existing Ph1/2 clinical data set for approval and without additional clinical trials or that future trials will support approvals. In addition, individual patient responses to the dose administered of a product candidate may vary in a manner that is difficult to predict. Also, the methods we select to assess particular safety or efficacy parameters may not yield statistical precision in estimating our product candidates' effects on study participants. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, these data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could interpret these data in different ways from us or our partners, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.. In addition, our product and certain of our product candidates are based on our active-site pharmacological chaperone technology. To date, we are not aware that any product based on active-site pharmacological chaperone technology has been approved by the FDA. As a result, if the FDA requires different endpoints than the endpoints we anticipate using or have used in our clinical trials, or a different analysis of those endpoints, it may be more difficult for us to obtain, or we may be delayed in obtaining, FDA approval of our product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing any of our products or product candidates, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA, PMDA and EMA.. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA, PMDA and EMA. As of December 31, 2017, we have obtained regulatory approval to market one product in the EU, Switzerland, Israel, Iceland, Liechtenstein, South Korea, Canada, and Australia. Our limited experience might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing a clinical trial for our product candidates. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the application process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and we might not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates meet the appropriate standards for regulatory approval. If we are not successful in conducting and managing our preclinical development activities or clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our product candidates, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which will materially harm our business.. -35-. Table of Contents. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our product or product candidates. If our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for their products, we may not be able to have competing products approved by the applicable regulatory authority for a significant period of time.. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including the EU and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. We obtained orphan drug designations from the FDA for migalastat HCl for the treatment of Fabry disease in February 2004. We also obtained orphan medicinal product designation in the EU for migalastat HCl in May 2006. ATB200/AT2221 has also received this designation from the FDA. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of market exclusivity, which, subject to certain exceptions, precludes the EMA from approving another marketing application for a similar medicinal product or the FDA from approving another marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for that time period. The applicable market exclusivity period for orphan drugs is ten years in the EU and seven years in the United States. The EU exclusivity period can be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation, including if the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified.. In the EU, a \"similar medicinal product\" is a medicinal product containing a similar active substance or substances as contained in a currently authorized orphan medicinal product, and which is intended for the same therapeutic indication. For a drug such as migalastat HCl, which is composed of small molecules, the FDA defines \"same drug\" as a drug that contains the same active moiety and is intended for the same use. Obtaining orphan drug exclusivity for migalastat HCl for these indications, both in the EU and in the United States, may be important to the product candidate's and our CHART program's success. If a competitor obtains orphan drug exclusivity for and approval of a product with the same indication as migalastat HCl before we do and if the competitor's product is the same drug or a similar medicinal product as ours, we could be excluded from the market for a certain period of time.. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for migalastat HCl for these indications, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product that is the same drug or a similar medicinal product as our product or product candidate is shown to be clinically superior to our product or product candidate, as applicable, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity will not prevent the approval of a product that is the same drug as our product or product candidate if the FDA finds that we cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs of the persons with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated.. The FDA Reauthorization Act, signed into law in August 2017, authorizes FDA to impose additional clinical trial requirements on manufacturers seeking orphan drug designation and/or pediatric indications. Migalastat HCl and ATB200/AT2221 have obtained orphan drug designations from the FDA. The impact, however, of future regulations on other product candidates is uncertain and could result in the need for additional clinical trials.. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing migalastat or our other products abroad.. In order to market and sell migalastat HCl and our other products in the EU and many other jurisdictions, we must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, some countries outside the United States require approval of. -36-. Table of Contents. the sales price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, separate procedures must be followed to obtain reimbursement. We may not obtain marketing, pricing or reimbursement approvals outside the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Regulatory approvals in countries outside the United States do not ensure pricing approvals in those countries or in any other countries, and regulatory approvals and pricing approvals do not ensure that reimbursement will be obtained.. Our product or product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product or product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product or product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by our products or product candidates after receipt of marketing approval:. <U+0095> regulatory authorities may require the addition of restrictive labeling statements;    <U+0095> regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; and    <U+0095> we may be required to change the way the product is administered or additional clinical trials are conducted.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or product candidate or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product or product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale or adversely affect our reputation.. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product or product candidates, we may not be successful in commercializing migalastat HCl or any product candidate if and when they are approved.. We have only recently built our sales and marketing infrastructure and have little experience in the sale and marketing of pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must continue to develop and maintain a sales and marketing organization or outsource these functions to third parties. We are continuing to establish our own sales and marketing capabilities and to promote migalastat HCl in the EU and other international geographies with a targeted sales force, and will do the same in the United States if or when migalastat HCl or any other product candidate is approved in the United States. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel. Similarly, if we enter into agreements with third parties, including the out licensing of our product or product candidates, we may choose to reduce or eliminate our sales and marketing operations and thereby lose our commercialization investment.. -37-. Table of Contents. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize migalastat HCl and our product candidates, if and when they are approved by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, PMDA and EMA, on our own include:. <U+0095> our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;     <U+0095> the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;     <U+0095> the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines;    <U+0095> unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization; and     <U+0095> efforts by our competitors to commercialize products at or about the time when our product candidates would be coming to market.. We may also co-promote or out license our product or product candidates in various markets with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in instances where we believe that a larger sales and marketing presence will expand the market or accelerate penetration. If we do enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues will be lower than if we directly sold and marketed our products and any revenues received under such arrangements will depend on the skills and efforts of others.. We may not be successful in entering into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances with third parties. Our failure to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms could delay or impair our ability to commercialize our product and product candidates and could increase our costs of commercialization. Dependence on distribution arrangements and marketing alliances to commercialize our products and product candidates will subject us to a number of risks, including:. <U+0095> we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors may devote to the commercialization of our product candidates;    <U+0095> our distributors may experience financial difficulties;    <U+0095> our distributors may experience compliance related issues and associated government investigations;    <U+0095> business combinations or significant changes in a distributor's business strategy may also adversely affect a distributor's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and    <U+0095> these arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which could interrupt the marketing and sales of a product and decrease our revenue.. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue at our current guidance and may not ever become profitable.. If the market opportunities for our product or product candidates are smaller than we believe they are, then our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may suffer.. Each of the diseases that our product and most advanced product candidates are being developed to address is rare. Our projections of both the number of people who have these diseases, as well as. -38-. Table of Contents. the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on estimates.. Currently, most reported estimates of the prevalence of these diseases are based on studies of small subsets of the population of specific geographic areas, which are then extrapolated to estimate the prevalence of the diseases in the broader world population. In addition, as new studies are performed the estimated prevalence of these diseases may change. There can be no assurance that the prevalence of Fabry disease or Pompe disease in the study populations, particularly in these newer studies, accurately reflects the prevalence of these diseases in the broader world population. If our estimates of the prevalence of Fabry disease or Pompe disease, or of the number of patients who may benefit from treatment with our product candidates prove to be incorrect, the market opportunities for our product and product candidates may be smaller than we believe they are, our prospects for generating revenue at our guidance levels may be adversely affected and our business may suffer.. Migalastat HCl or any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. Migalastat HCl and any of our other products or product candidates that receive regulatory approval may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or any profits from operations. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> the efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments;    <U+0095> the prevalence and severity of any side effects;    <U+0095> the ability to offer our product and product candidates for sale at competitive prices;    <U+0095> convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments;    <U+0095> the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;     <U+0095> the strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction of competitive products;     <U+0095> publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and    <U+0095> sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement.. Our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain third party coverage and reimbursement may be affected by political, economic and regulatory developments in the United States, the EU and other jurisdictions. Governments continue to impose cost containment measures, and third party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medicines and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. These and other similar developments could significantly limit the degree of market acceptance of migalastat HCl or any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval and we may fail to meet our revenue targets.. -39-. Table of Contents. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our current product or product candidates and any products we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. For example, several large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies currently market and sell products for the treatment of lysosomal storage disorders, including Fabry disease. These products include Sanofi Aventis' Fabrazyme® and Shire plc's Replagal®, as well as other Fabry treatment products in development. In addition, Sanofi markets and sells Myozyme® and Lumizyme® for the treatment of Pompe disease. We are also aware of other enzyme replacement and substrate reduction therapies in development by third parties for Pompe, as well as potential gene therapies for both Fabry and Pompe.. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also obtain FDA, EMA, or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. We may also face competition from off-label use of other approved therapies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render our product candidates or any acquired products obsolete or noncompetitive either during the research phase or once the products reaches commercialization.. We believe that many competitors, including academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations, large pharmaceutical companies and smaller more focused companies, are attempting to develop therapies for many of our target indications. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, prosecuting intellectual property rights and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller and other early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to or necessary for our programs or advantageous to our business. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approvals for our products, manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently relay on third party manufacturers for all our products and product candidates, and a limited sales force and marketing infrastructure for migalastat HCl. Further, many of our competitors have substantial resources and expertise in conducting collaborative arrangements, sourcing in-licensing arrangements, manufacturing and acquiring new business lines or businesses that are greater than our own.. A variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business.. Migalastat HCl, and any of our other product candidates that may be approved in the future for commercialization in the EU, or in other foreign countries, are or will be subject to additional risks related to international operations or entering into international business relationships, including:. <U+0095> different regulatory requirements for maintaining approval of drugs in foreign countries;    <U+0095> reduced protection for contractual and intellectual property rights in some countries;. -40-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;    <U+0095> economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;     <U+0095> compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;     <U+0095> foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;    <U+0095> workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;    <U+0095> noncompliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions;    <U+0095> tighter restrictions on privacy and the collection and use of patient data; and    <U+0095> business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires.. We have no prior experience in these areas. In addition, there are complex regulatory, tax, labor and other legal requirements imposed by both the EU and many of the individual countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America with which we will need to comply. Many U.S.-based biopharmaceutical companies have found the process of marketing their own products in Europe and other international geographies to be very challenging.. Following the receipt of marketing approval of our product or any product candidates, the products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third party coverage and reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business.. The regulations and practices that govern marketing approvals, pricing, commercialization, coverage and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries, including almost all of the member states of the European Economic Area, require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, including the European market, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact any revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.. Our ability to commercialize migalastat HCl or any product candidate successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and other third party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the EU and U.S. healthcare industries and elsewhere is cost containment. It is currently unknown what impact, if any, the current administration and Congress in the U.S. will have on pricing and reimbursement, particularly with respect to government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.. For the last several years government authorities and other third party. -41-. Table of Contents. payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Prices at which we or our customers seek reimbursement for our products can be subject to challenge, reduction or denial by the government and other payers. Increasingly, third party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for migalastat HCl or any product that we commercialize and, if coverage and reimbursement are available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Obtaining reimbursement for migalastat HCl and our other product candidates when approved may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices typically associated with drugs directed at smaller orphan populations of patients and the pricing and reimbursement of competitive products. In addition, third party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement of a higher priced drug. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product for which we obtain marketing approval.. Any product or product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties or other enforcement actions if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our product or our product candidates, when and if any of them are approved.. Any product or product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA, EMA, PMDA and other regulatory authorities. For example, the FDA's requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, Current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and complaints and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to healthcare professionals and recordkeeping. Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or may be subject to significant conditions of approval, including the requirement of a REMS. The FDA also may impose requirements for costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product also must be in compliance with FDA requirements which include, among others, promotional activities, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, promotional activities involving the internet, and industry sponsored scientific and educational activities. In general, all product promotion must be consistent with the labeling approved by the FDA for such product, contain a balanced presentation of information on the product's uses, benefits, risks, and important safety information and limitations on use, and otherwise not be false or misleading. The FDA, has very broad enforcement authority, and failure to abide by these regulations can result in penalties, including the issuance of a warning letter directing a company to correct deviations from regulatory standards and enforcement actions that can include seizures, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements and restrictions also may subject a company to adverse publicity and enforcement action by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") or the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (\"HHS\") as well as state authorities. This could subject the company to a range of penalties that could have a significant commercial impact, including civil and criminal fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which a company promotes or distributes its products.. -42-. Table of Contents. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may yield various results, including:. <U+0095> restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;    <U+0095> changes to or restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;    <U+0095> restrictions on product distribution or use;    <U+0095> requirements to implement a REMS;    <U+0095> requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;    <U+0095> warning or untitled letters;    <U+0095> withdrawal of the products from the market;    <U+0095> refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;    <U+0095> recall of products;    <U+0095> fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;    <U+0095> suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;    <U+0095> refusal to permit the import or export of our products;    <U+0095> product seizure;    <U+0095> injunctions; or    <U+0095> the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. Non-compliance with EU requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties. Similarly, failure to comply with the EU's requirements regarding the protection of personal information, which are scheduled to be enforced beginning May 25, 2018, can also lead to significant penalties and sanctions and business restrictions.. If we, or our suppliers, third party contractors, clinical investigators or collaborators are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we or our collaborators may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties.. Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers, patients, patient organizations, charitable foundations and third party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, anti-bribery and corruption and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval. Increasingly, patients, patient organizations and charitable foundations also can influence selection of and payment for therapies. Our future arrangements with payors, healthcare providers, patient organizations, charitable foundations and patients may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-bribery and corruption, and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any product candidates for. -43-. Table of Contents. which we may obtain marketing approval. Even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, anti-bribery and corruption, interaction with patient organizations, charitable foundations, and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. Restrictions under applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations may affect our ability to operate and expose us to areas of risk, including:. <U+0095> the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, and healthcare laws and regulations;     <U+0095> the U.S. federal False Claims Act, which imposes criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items and services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. There is also a separate false claims provision imposing criminal penalties. Applicable regulations of both the EMA and EU member states also impose liability for failing to comply with fraud and abuse laws or improperly using information obtained in in the course of clinical trials with the EMA or other regulatory authorities;    <U+0095> The U.S. federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute to defraud any healthcare benefit program or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. This statute also may impose monetary penalties on any offers or transfers of remuneration to Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries (patients) which is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of particular supplier of government payable items. Similarly, the collection and use of personal health data in the EU is governed by the EU General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), with many requirements mandated by the GDPR for the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, transfer of personal data within and outside of the EU and the security and confidentiality of the personal data. Enforcement of the GDPR is scheduled to begin on May 25, 2018, and failure to comply with the requirements of the GDPR may result in substantial fines and other administrative penalties. The GDPR increases our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the GDPR. This may be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects;    <U+0095> HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and its implementing regulations, which also imposes obligations on certain covered entity healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform certain services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable. -44-. Table of Contents. health information, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;   <U+0095> U.S. federal laws requiring drug manufacturers to report annually information related to certain payments and other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, including under the federal Open Payments program, commonly known as the Sunshine Act, as well as other state and foreign laws regulating marketing activities and requiring manufacturers to report marketing expenditures, payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers. Similarly, payments made to physicians in certain EU member states must be publicly disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians often must be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician's employer, his or her competent professional organization and/or the regulatory authorities of the individual EU member states. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes or professional codes of conduct, applicable in the EU member states. In addition, the provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.     <U+0095> U.S. federal government price reporting laws, which require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. Participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs, potential liability for the failure to report such prices in an accurate and timely manner, and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts;    <U+0095> US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibit us and third parties working on our behalf from making payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Specifically, the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA prohibit the willful use of the mails or any means of instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of any offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization of the payment of money or anything of value to any person, while knowing that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will be offered, given or promised, directly or indirectly, to a foreign official to influence the foreign official in his or her official capacity, induce the foreign official to do or omit to do an act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in order to assist in obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person; and    <U+0095> state and foreign equivalents of each of the above laws, including foreign anti-bribery and corruption laws and state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental payors, including private insurers; state laws which require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restricting payments that may be made to healthcare providers; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. While we do not submit claims and our customers will make the ultimate decision on how to submit claims, we may provide reimbursement guidance and support regarding migalastat HCl, and our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, to our customers and patients. If a. -45-. Table of Contents. government authority were to conclude that we provided improper advice to our customers and patients and/or encouraged the submission of false claims for reimbursement, we could face action by government authorities. Similarly, if a government authority were to conclude that our patient support efforts or interactions with charitable foundations were improper, we could face action by government authorities. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. Nonetheless, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations.. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of migalastat HCl or any of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates, including migalastat HCl, for which we obtain marketing approval.. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or Medicare Modernization Act, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for physician administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the Medicare Modernization Act applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the Medicare Modernization Act may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.. The pricing of pharmaceutical products, in general, and specialty drugs, in particular, has also been a topic of concern in the U.S. government, including by the current administration. There can be no assurance as to how this scrutiny on pricing of pharmaceutical products will impact future pricing of our products or orphan drugs or pharmaceutical products generally.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Affordable Care Act, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the Affordable Care Act revised the definition of \"average manufacturer price\" for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. A significant number of provisions are not yet, or have only recently become, effective, but the Affordable Care Act is likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well. -46-. Table of Contents. as other healthcare reform measures that have been and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria, new payment methodologies and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may compromise our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products. Finally, there have been significant efforts to modify or eliminate the ACA. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 repealed the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the repeal will result in over 13 million Americans losing their health insurance coverage over the next ten years and is likely to lead to increases in insurance premiums. Further legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the ACA remain possible. It is unknown what form any such changes or any law proposed to replace the ACA would take, and how or whether it may affect our business in the future.. In August 2017, President Trump signed into law the Food & Drug Administration Reauthorization Act (FDARA). This legislation imposes significant new requirements for clinical trial sponsors which will affect, among other things, obtaining orphan drug designation, and the development of drugs and biological products for pediatric use. Migalastat HCl and ATB200/AT2221 have obtained orphan drug designations from the FDA, but this legislation may result in new regulations which might materially impact our business.. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.. In the EU, similar political, economic and regulatory developments may affect our ability to profitably commercialize our products. In addition to continuing pressure on prices and cost containment measures, legislative developments at the EU or member state level may result in significant additional requirements or obstacles that may increase our operating costs.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. In particular, a product may not be promoted in the United States for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's approved labeling. In particular, any labeling approved by the FDA for migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates may include restrictions on use. The FDA may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates as part of a REMS plan. If we receive marketing approval for migalastat HCl or any other product candidates, physicians may nevertheless prescribe such products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines and / or other penalties against companies for alleged improper promotion and has investigated and / or prosecuted several companies in relation to off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that certain. -47-. Table of Contents. companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed, curtailed or prohibited.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk when we commercially sell any products that we develop, including those which may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, such products, whether or not such problems directly relate to the products and services we have provided. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. <U+0095> reduced resources of our management to pursue our business strategy;    <U+0095> decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop;    <U+0095> injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;    <U+0095> regulatory investigations, prosecutions or enforcement actions that could require costly recalls or product modifications     <U+0095> withdrawal of clinical trial participants;    <U+0095> significant costs to defend the related litigation;    <U+0095> increased insurance costs, or an inability to maintain appropriate insurance coverage;    <U+0095> substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients, including awards that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available, and would damage our ability to obtain liability insurance at reasonable costs, or at all, in the future;     <U+0095> loss of revenue; and    <U+0095> the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We have increased our insurance coverage for the commercialization of migalastat HCl and may increase insurance coverage when, and if, we begin commercializing any other product candidate that receives marketing approval. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or a series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our available cash and adversely affect our business.. -48-. Table of Contents. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic or biosimiliar products with claims that compete with our product or any of our product candidates, it could reduce our sales of our product or those product candidates.. In the United States, after an NDA is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a \"listed drug\" which can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FD&C Act, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredients, dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use, or product labeling, as our product or product candidate and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as, or is bioequivalent to, our product or product candidate. These generic equivalents would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product are typically lost to the generic product. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents to our product or product candidates would substantially limit our ability to generate revenues and therefore to obtain a return on the investments we have made in our product or product candidates.. The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA, was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the ACA, Pub. L. No. 111-148 (2010). The BPCIA authorizes the FDA to approve \"abbreviated\" BLAs for products whose sponsors demonstrate they are \"biosimilar\" to reference products previously approved under BLAs. The FDA may also separately determine whether \"biosimilar\" products are \"interchangeable\" with their reference products. However, the FDA may not approve an \"abbreviated\" BLA for a biosimilar product until at least twelve years after the date on which the BLA for the reference product was approved. FDA approval could be further delayed if the reference products are subject to unexpired and otherwise valid patents.. Prior to the enactment of the BPCIA, information in approved BLAs could not be relied upon by other manufacturers to establish the safety and efficacy of their products for which they were seeking FDA approval. Accordingly, if our products are approved under a BLA, other manufacturers potentially could develop and seek FDA approval of \"biosimilar\" products at some point in the future.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses in the future.. We are an early commercial-stage pharmaceutical company. To date, we have focused on developing our first product, migalastat HCl. Investment in pharmaceutical product development is highly speculative because it entails substantial upfront capital expenditures and significant risk that a product candidate will fail to gain regulatory approval or become commercially viable. Since our inception we have only generated limited revenue from product sales. Although the European Commission has granted full approval for the oral small molecule pharmacological chaperone migalastat HCl as a first-line therapy for long-term treatment of adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease (alpha-galactosidase A deficiency) and who have an amenable mutation, neither the FDA nor Japan has granted regulatory approval to any of our product candidates, and we continue to incur significant research, development, commercialization and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in each period since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we have a net loss of $284.0 million, and we have an accumulated deficit of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2017.. -49-. Table of Contents. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we:. <U+0095> continue our development and commercialization of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product and product candidates in the United States, the European Union, Japan and other foreign countries, as applicable;    <U+0095> conduct additional clinical trials and/or further analysis of pre-existing clinical data to support the approval of migalastat HCl in the United States or any post-approval commitments or trials, should it be approved;    <U+0095> continue communicating with the EMA, as necessary, regarding post-marketing requirements and clinical trials for migalastat HCl;     <U+0095> continue to or initiate the regulatory submission process for marketing approval of migalastat HCl outside of the United States and EU, as applicable;               <U+0095> build our commercial infrastructure so that it is capable of supporting product sales, marketing and distribution of migalastat HCl in the EU, Japan and the US or other territories in which we may receive regulatory approval;    <U+0095> continue wind-down of our Phase 3 clinical trial of SD-101 for the treatment of epidermolysis bullosa, or EB     <U+0095> continue our preclinical studies and clinical trials on the use of pharmacological chaperones co-formulated or co-administered with enzyme replacement therapy, or ERT, for Fabry, Pompe, and other lysosomal storage disorders, or LSDs; and    <U+0095> continue our preclinical studies of and potentially conduct clinical studies of CDKL5.. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown factors that may adversely affect our business. The size of our future losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues. If any of our product candidates fails in clinical trials or does not gain regulatory approval, or if approved, fails to achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital.. We currently generate limited revenue from the sale of products and may never become profitable.. We began the commercial launch of our first product, migalastat HCl, in May 2016. Accordingly, we have only generated limited revenue from product sales. Our ability to generate material revenue and become profitable depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize our existing product and product candidates, or product candidates that we may in-license or acquire in the future. Even if we are able to successfully achieve regulatory approval for our product candidates, we do not know when any of these product candidates will generate revenue for us, if at all and we may not meet our current revenue guidance. Our ability to generate revenue from our current or future product and product candidates depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:. <U+0095> successfully complete development activities and obtain additional regulatory and pricing and reimbursement approvals for, and successfully commercialize, migalastat HCl;               <U+0095> develop a commercial organization capable of sales, marketing, and distribution for migalastat HCl and any product candidates we intend to market, if we receive regulatory approval, in the countries where we have chosen to commercialize the product candidates ourselves including the US and Japan;. -50-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> manufacture commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels;    <U+0095> obtaining a commercially viable price for our products;    <U+0095> obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-parties, including government payors;                <U+0095> successfully satisfy post-marketing requirements that the FDA, EMA, or other foreign regulatory authorities may impose if migalastat HCl or any of our other product candidates receive regulatory approval, including pediatric trials and patient registries;    <U+0095> successfully complete development activities, including the necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials, with respect to product candidates, including ATB200/ATB2221;    <U+0095> complete and submit regulatory submissions to the FDA and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates including migalastat HCl and ATB200/AT2221; and               <U+0095> complete and submit applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, foreign regulatory authorities.. In addition, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development, including that our product candidates may not advance through development or achieve the safety and efficacy endpoints of applicable clinical trials, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, or when or if we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Furthermore, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing these products.. Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce our operations.. If we require substantial additional capital to fund our operations and we fail to obtain necessary financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product and development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to advance the clinical development of our product candidates, and launch and commercialize our product and product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval, including continuing to build our own commercial organization. We believe that our current cash position, including proceeds from the recent equity offering and expected Galafold revenues, is sufficient to fund ongoing Fabry and Pompe program operations into at least 2021. Potential future business development collaborations, pipeline expansion, and investment in biologics manufacturing capabilities could impact our future capital requirements. However, we may require substantial additional capital for the development and commercialization of our product and further development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts, when required or on acceptable terms, we could also be required to:. <U+0095> significantly delay, scale back, or discontinue the development or the commercialization of our product or product candidates or one or more of our other research and development initiatives;    <U+0095> seek collaborators for migalastat HCl or one or more of our current or future product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable, or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available;    <U+0095> relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to our technologies, product or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or    <U+0095> significantly curtail operations.. -51-. Table of Contents. Our forecast of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties, and actual results could vary as a result of a number of factors, including the factors discussed elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> the costs of commercialization activities, including establishing sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities for migalastat HCl and any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval in regions where we choose to commercialize our products on our own;    <U+0095> the scope, progress, results, and costs of preclinical development, laboratory testing, and clinical trials for our product candidates and any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire;    <U+0095> the cost of manufacturing drug supply for our preclinical studies and clinical trials, including the significant cost of new Fabry ERT cell line development and manufacturing as well as the cost of manufacturing ATB200, our Pompe ERT;    <U+0095> the outcome, timing, and cost of the regulatory approval process by the FDA, EMA, PMDA and other foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for regulatory authorities to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently anticipate for our product and product candidates;    <U+0095> the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending, and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights;                <U+0095> the cost and timing of completion of existing or expanded commercial-scale outsourced manufacturing activities;                <U+0095> the cost of defending any claims asserted against us;               <U+0095> the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments;    <U+0095> the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, and technologies; and             Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations, or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies, migalastat HCl or product candidates.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, receivables or royalty financings, strategic collaborations and alliances, and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of existing stockholders. Debt, receivables, and royalty financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders' ownership. For example, stockholders may experience dilution if the holders of the convertible notes issued in connection with our private placement in December 2016 have their convertible notes converted to equity. The incurrence of additional indebtedness beyond our existing indebtedness with the convertible note holders could also result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur further debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and may result in liens being placed on our assets and intellectual property. If we were to default on any of our indebtedness, we could lose such assets and intellectual property. If we raise additional funds through strategic collaborations and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to migalastat HCl or our. -52-. Table of Contents. product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market our technologies that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. On December 21, 2016, we issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 3.00% unsecured Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"Convertible Notes\"), in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.00% per year, payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2017. The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed, or converted in accordance with their terms. The Notes are convertible at the option of the holders, under certain circumstances and during certain periods, into cash, shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (\"Common Stock\"), or a combination thereof and may be settled as described below.. There can be no assurance that our cash and cash equivalents, together with funds generated by our operations and any future financings, will be sufficient to satisfy our debt payment obligations or that we will have sufficient equity to satisfy these obligations. Our inability to generate funds or obtain financing sufficient to satisfy our debt payment obligations may result in such obligations being accelerated by our lenders, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of such notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option, which are set forth in the applicable indenture. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we have the option to settle conversions entirely in cash, in common stock or a combination thereof. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. We commenced operations in February 2002. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring and developing our technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our most advanced product candidates, including our first product, migalastat HCl. We have not yet generated any material commercial sales for any of our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to obtain global regulatory approvals (including the US), manufacture a commercial scale biologic product, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, because we were successful in obtaining from the European Union full approval for migalastat HCl, we will need to continue the transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We are currently in the early stages of the commercial launch of GALAFOLD in the. -53-. Table of Contents. European Union. We have not demonstrated an ability to commercialize a product successfully and may not be successful in such a transition.. We may acquire other assets or businesses, or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies that could harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders' ownership, increase our debt, or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions or licenses of assets or businesses, or strategic alliances and collaborations, to expand our existing technologies and operations. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition or licensing candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith. Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, especially the acquisition of commercial assets, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. We may not be able to find suitable collaboration partners or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments.. To finance any acquisitions, licenses or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common stock as consideration. Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our stockholders. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carry forwards (\"NOLs\") of approximately $777.6 million, $781.8 million, and $47.1 million respectively. The federal carry forward will expire in 2030 through 2037. Most of the state carry forwards generated prior to 2009 have expired through 2016. The remaining state carry forwards including those generated in 2009 through 2017 will expire in 2030 through 2037. The foreign NOLs have indefinite expiration. Utilization of NOLs may be subject to a substantial limitation pursuant to Section 382 of the Code as well as similar state statutes in the event of an ownership change. Such ownership changes have occurred in the past, and could occur again in the future Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Section 382, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research and development tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of shifts in our stock ownership some of which are outside our control. We completed a detailed study of our NOLs and determined that there was not an ownership change in excess of 50%. Ownership changes in future periods may place additional limits on our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. In addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. -54-. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions related to our novel technologies, product and product candidates that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, if we license technology or product candidates from third parties in the future, these license agreements may not permit us to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain or enforce the patents, covering this intellectual property. These agreements could also give our licensors the right to enforce the licensed patents without our involvement, or to decide not to enforce the patents at all. Therefore, in these circumstances, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:. <U+0095> we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications;                <U+0095> we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;               <U+0095> others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;                <U+0095> any patents issued to us or our licensors will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties;    <U+0095> we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;    <U+0095> we will file patent applications for new proprietary technologies promptly or at all;                <U+0095> our patents will not expire prior to or shortly after commencing commercialization of a product; or                <U+0095> the patents of others will not have a negative effect on our ability to do business.    <U+0095> Patent authorities may identify deficiencies in our patent applications and not grant our patents. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. In particular, we have filed patent applications in the United States, the European Patent Office and other countries outside the United States that have not been issued as patents. These. -55-. Table of Contents. pending applications include, among others, patent applications for ATB200 and some of the patent applications we license pursuant to a license agreement with Mount Sinai School of Medicine of New York University. If patents are not issued in respect of our pending patent applications, we may not be able to stop competitors from marketing similar products in Europe and other countries in which we do not have issued patents.. The patents that we have licensed from Mt. Sinai School of Medicine relating to use of migalastat HCl to treat Fabry disease expire in 2018 in the United States and 2019 in Europe, Japan, and Canada. In addition to patent protection outside of the United States, we intend to seek orphan medicinal product designation and to rely on statutory data exclusivity provisions in jurisdictions outside the United States where such protections are available, including Europe. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. In particular:. <U+0095> We do not hold composition of matter patents covering migalastat HCl and we have composition of matter patent applications pending for ATB200. There can be no assurance that the pending applications will be approved or that the scope of such patents, if they issue, will be sufficient to protect our product. Composition of matter patents can provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are important. For our product candidates for which we do not hold composition of matter patents, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same composition as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use patents that we may hold.               <U+0095> For some of our product candidates, including ATB200, the principal patent protection that covers or those we expect will cover, our product candidate is a method of use patent. This type of patent only protects the product when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication that is outside of the patented method, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside the patented method.. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may infringe or induce infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than U.S. law does. In addition, we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, currently, the first to file a patent application is generally entitled to the patent. However, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent was entitled to the patent. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings or litigation, in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly. -56-. Table of Contents. with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity that we obtain under applicable legislation, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Legal and regulatory developments in the EU and elsewhere may also result in clinical trial data submitted as part of an MAA becoming publicly available. Such developments could enable other companies to circumvent our intellectual property rights and use our clinical trial data to obtain marketing authorizations in the EU and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain our patents.. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patent's claims narrowly or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may subsequently issue and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful. -57-. Table of Contents. against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit.. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our product candidates, technology or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our product candidates, technology or methods.. We are aware, for example, of U.S. patents, and corresponding international counterparts, owned by third parties that contain claims related to treating protein misfolding. If any of these patents were to be asserted against us, while we do not believe that our product candidates would be found to infringe any valid claim of such patents, there is no assurance that a court would find in our favor or that, if we choose or are required to seek a license with respect to such patents, such license would be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we were to challenge the validity of any issued U.S. patent in court, we would need to overcome a presumption of validity that attaches to every patent. This burden is high and would require us to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of the patent's claims. There is no assurance that a court would find in our favor on infringement or validity.. In order to avoid or settle potential claims with respect to any of the patent rights described above or any other patent rights of third parties, we may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. Others may sue us for infringing their patent or other intellectual property rights or file nullity, opposition or interference proceedings against our patents, even if such claims are without merit, which would similarly harm our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business.. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Even if we prevail, the cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding could be substantial.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to. -58-. Table of Contents. ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while we typically require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development, sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. However, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or that the agreements we have executed will provide adequate protection. Any party with whom we have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade. -59-. Table of Contents. secrets were to be obtained or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to a license agreement with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine of New York University, pursuant to which we license key intellectual property relating to our lead product candidates. We expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Under our existing license, we have the right to enforce the licensed patent rights. Our existing license imposes, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various diligences, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents.. We have not yet registered our trademarks in all of our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business.. Our trademark applications may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. Although we are given an opportunity to respond to those rejections, we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. If we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter more difficulty in enforcing them against third parties than we otherwise would.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In addition, periodic maintenance fees on issued patents are required to be paid to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patents. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitive position would be adversely affected.. -60-. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties. Use of third parties to manufacture our product or product candidates may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product or product candidates or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our product or product candidates. We currently lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture ourselves any of our product or product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. If we choose in the future to manufacture ourselves, we would face all of the risks and uncertainties of third party manufacture of our products. We currently outsource all manufacturing and packaging of our product and preclinical and clinical product candidates to third parties. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. In particular, the manufacture of our biologic product candidates, including ATB200 for Pompe, are highly complex and we may encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up to commercial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields and quality control, including stability of the product or product candidate, and demonstrating comparability of small batches to commercial scale batches. The occurrence of any of these problems could significantly delay our clinical trials or the commercial availability of our products.. We may be unable to enter into agreements for commercial supply with third party manufacturers, or may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. Even if we enter into these agreements, the manufacturers of each product candidate will be single source suppliers to us for a significant period of time.. Even if we are able to establish and maintain arrangements with third party manufacturers, reliance on third party manufacturers entails additional risks, including:. <U+0095> reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;    <U+0095> limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third parties;     <U+0095> inability to demonstrate comparability to GMP commercial scale product for biologic products;    <U+0095> inability to manufacture batches that meet specifications and quality standards;    <U+0095> impact on our reputation in the marketplace if manufacturers of our products, once commercialized, fail to meet the demands of our customers;     <U+0095> the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party;    <U+0095> the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how; and     <U+0095> the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us.. The failure of any of our contract manufacturers to maintain high manufacturing standards could result in injury or death of clinical trial participants or patients using products. Such failure could also result in product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business or profitability.. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions require our contract manufacturers to comply with regulations setting forth cGMP. These regulations cover all aspects of the manufacturing, testing, quality control and recordkeeping relating to our product candidates and any products that we. -61-. Table of Contents. may commercialize. Our manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could significantly and adversely affect regulatory approval and supplies of our product candidates.. Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing our products.. If the third parties that we engage to manufacture product for our preclinical tests and clinical trials should cease to continue to do so for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval on a timely and competitive basis.. We rely on third parties to conduct certain preclinical development activities and our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials.. We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates or certain preclinical development activities of our product candidates, such as long-term safety studies in animals. We rely on third parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform these functions. Any of these third parties may terminate their engagements with us at any time. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, it would delay our product development activities.. Our reliance on these third parties for preclinical and clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. We also are required to register certain ongoing clinical trials and post the results of completed clinical trials on a government-sponsored database, ClinicalTrials.gov, within particular timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. Similar GCP and transparency requirements apply in the EU. Failure to comply with such requirements, including with respect to clinical trials conducted outside the EU and United States, can also lead regulatory authorities to refuse to take into account clinical trial data submitted as part of an MAA.. Furthermore, third parties that we rely on for our clinical development activities may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or obtaining marketing approvals.. -62-. Table of Contents. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our preclinical development activities and clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. Extensions, delays, suspensions or terminations of our preclinical development activities or our clinical trials as a result of the performance of our independent clinical investigators and CROs will delay, and make more costly, regulatory approval for any product candidates that we may develop. Any change in a CRO during an ongoing preclinical development activity or clinical trial could seriously delay that trial and potentially compromise the results of the activity or trial.. We may not be successful in maintaining or establishing collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and, particularly in international markets, commercialize products.. We are collaborating with physicians, patient advocacy groups, foundations and government agencies in order to assist with the development of our products and each of our product candidates. We plan to pursue similar activities in future programs and plan to evaluate the merits of retaining commercialization rights for ourselves or entering into selective collaboration arrangements with leading pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. We also may seek to establish collaborations for the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. If we elect to seek collaborators in the future but are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the affected product or program. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts, if any, to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any collaboration or other arrangements that we establish, if any, may not be favorable to us.. Any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements, if any, will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. It is likely that any collaborators of ours will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. The risks that we may be subject to in possible future collaborations include the following:. <U+0095> collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations;     <U+0095> collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product or product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs, based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;    <U+0095> collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;    <U+0095> collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;    <U+0095> a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products;    <U+0095> collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or. -63-. Table of Contents. invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;   <U+0095> collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;     <U+0095> disputes may arise between the collaborator and us as to the ownership of intellectual property arising during the collaboration;     <U+0095> we may grant exclusive rights to our collaborators, which would prevent us from collaborating with others;     <U+0095> disputes may arise between the collaborators and us that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our products or product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and    <U+0095> collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program could be delayed, diminished or terminated.. Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Such terminations or expirations may adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation in the event we elect to pursue collaborations that ultimately expire or are terminated.. Our initial co-formulated product candidate for Fabry Disease utilized migalastat HCl co-formulated with a proprietary human recombinant alpha-Gal A enzyme. We plan to continue development of a co-formulated ERT with migalastat HCl with an internally developed Fabry cell line as a next-generation ERT for Fabry disease.. The risks involved with developing our own internal cell line are in addition to the risks described above with respect to securing and using third party manufacturers and it could significantly and adversely affect the overall cost of developing the co-formulated product candidate and significantly increase the timelines for development.. Materials necessary to manufacture our product or product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our product or product candidates.. We currently rely on the manufacturers of our product and product candidates to purchase from third party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the compounds for our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and we rely, or will rely, on these other manufacturers for commercial distribution of our product and, if we obtain marketing approval, for any of our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms and all such prices are susceptible to fluctuations in price and availability due to transportation costs, government regulations, price controls and changes in economic climate or other foreseen circumstances. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our preclinical studies and clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials for. -64-. Table of Contents. commercial distribution of our product or, after regulatory approval has been obtained, our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product and product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product or product candidates.. Manufacturing issues may arise that could increase product and regulatory approval costs or delay commercialization.. As we scale up manufacturing of our product and product candidates and conduct required stability and comparability testing, we may encounter product, packaging, equipment and process-related issues that may require refinement or resolution in order to proceed with our planned clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for commercial marketing. In the future, we may identify impurities, which could result in increased scrutiny by regulatory authorities, delays in our clinical programs and regulatory approval, increases in our operating expenses or failure to obtain or maintain approval for our product or product candidates.. We currently rely on WuXi App Tec Biopharmaceuticals, a company based in the People's Republic of China, as the sole supplier of our biologic product, ATB200. Accordingly, there is a risk that supplies of our product may be significantly delayed by or may become unavailable as a result of manufacturing, equipment, process, or business-related issues affecting that company. We may also face additional manufacturing and supply-chain risks due to the regulatory and political structure of the PRC, or as a result of the international relationship between the PRC and the United States or any of the other countries in which our products are marketed.. Our business activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences.. Our research and development programs involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including microbial agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals and other hazardous compounds in addition to certain biological hazardous waste. Ultimately, the activities of our third party product manufacturers when a product candidate reaches commercialization will also require the use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by local, state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In addition, our collaborators may not comply with these laws. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our assets and resources or we could be subject to limitations or stoppages related to our use of these materials which may lead to an interruption of our business operations or those of our third party contractors. While we believe that our existing insurance coverage is generally adequate for our normal handling of these hazardous materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Furthermore, an accident could damage or force us to shut down our operations. Changes in environmental laws may impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities and additional laws relating to the management, handling, generation, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used in or generated by the manufacture of our products or related to our clinical trials. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that these potential requirements may have on us, our suppliers and contractors or our customers.. -65-. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Business, Employee Matters and Managing Growth. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on John F. Crowley, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bradley L. Campbell, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and William D. Baird, III, our Chief Financial Officer. These executives each have significant pharmaceutical industry experience. The loss of the services of any of these executives might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives and materially adversely affect our business and we may not be able to replace these executives with candidates with similar background and experience in the event of the loss of their services. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance on Mr. Crowley or on any of our other executive officers.. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. In addition, maintaining a qualified finance and legal department is key to our ability to meet our regulatory obligations as a public company and important in any potential capital raising activities. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover in recent years. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel, particularly in New Jersey and surrounding areas. Although we believe we offer competitive salaries and benefits, we may have to increase spending in order to retain personnel. If we fail to retain our remaining qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to recruit replacements nor continue our development and commercialization activities.. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We expect to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 325 full-time employees. As our development and commercialization strategies develop, we will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, technical operations and other resources. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Future growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our existing or future product candidates and we may not be able to replace key personnel in the event of turnover. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. <U+0095> managing the commercialization of migalastat HCl and any product candidates approved for marketing;    <U+0095> overseeing our ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials effectively;    <U+0095> identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees, including any sales and marketing personnel engaged in connection with the commercialization of any approved product;    <U+0095> managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties;. -66-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> improving our managerial, development, operational and financial systems and procedures;    <U+0095> developing our compliance infrastructure and processes to ensure compliance with regulations applicable to public companies;     <U+0095> developing biologics manufacturing expertise; and    <U+0095> expanding our facilities.. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic collaborators, suppliers and other third parties. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. We could be negatively impacted by securities class action complaints.. Since October 1, 2015, three purported securities class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for New Jersey, naming as defendants the Company, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and in one of the actions, its Chief Medical Officer. The lawsuits alleged violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with allegedly false and misleading statements made by the Company related to the regulatory approval path for migalastat. The plaintiffs sought, among other things, damages for purchasers of the Company's Common Stock during different periods, all of which fall between March 19, 2015 and October 1, 2015. It is possible that additional suits will be filed, or allegations received from stockholders, with respect to similar matters and also naming the Company and/or its officers and directors as defendants. On May 26, 2016, the Court consolidated these lawsuits into a single action entitled In re Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. Shareholder Litigation (C.A. # 3:15-cv-07350) and appointed a lead plaintiff. The lead plaintiff filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint on July 11, 2016. On August 25, 2016, the Company and other defendants filed a motion to dismiss in response to the Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint. This motion to dismiss was fully briefed on October 28, 2016. Before the motion was decided, the lead plaintiff and defendants entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement dated April 14, 2017 (the \"Settlement\"). Thereafter, on June 29, 2017, the Court entered an order granting preliminary approval of the Settlement. On November 9, 2017, the Court conducted a fairness hearing and on November 15, 2017, entered an Order and Final Judgment approving the Settlement. Among other provisions, the Settlement provides defendants with a release of all claims and involves the creation of a Settlement Fund for class members in the amount of $3.8 million. The majority of the amount was covered under insurance and any out of pocket expenses were immaterial to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. On or about March 3, 2016, a derivative lawsuit was filed by an Amicus shareholder purportedly on Amicus' behalf in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Middlesex County, Chancery Division, against various officers and directors of the Company. Amicus itself is named as a nominal defendant. The derivative lawsuit alleges similar facts and circumstances as the three purported securities class action lawsuits described above and further alleges claims for breach of state law fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, abuse of control, and gross mismanagement based on allegedly false and misleading statements made by Amicus related to the regulatory approval path for migalastat HCl. The plaintiff seeks, among other things, to require the Amicus Board to take certain actions to reform its corporate governance procedures, including greater shareholder input and a provision to permit shareholders to nominate candidates for election to the Board, along with restitution, costs of suit and attorney's fees. On February 7, 2017, the complaint was dismissed by the Court without prejudice.. -67-. Table of Contents. These lawsuits and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties and the actual cost will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of any litigation is necessarily uncertain and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of these lawsuits, and we may not prevail.. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses which could have an adverse effect on our business.. As we continue to increase the size of our workforce, the risk of potential employment-related claims will also increase. As such, we may be subject to claims, allegations or legal proceedings related to employment matters including, but not limited to, discrimination, harassment (sexual or otherwise), wrongful termination or retaliation, local, state or federal labor law violations, injury, and wage violations. In the event we are subject to one or more employment-related claims, allegations or legal proceedings, we may incur substantial costs, losses or other liabilities in the defense, investigation, settlement or other disposition of such claims. In addition to the economic impact, we may also suffer reputational harm as a result of such claims, allegations and legal proceedings and the investigation, defense and prosecution of such claims, allegations and legal proceedings could cause substantial disruption in our business and operations. While we do have policies and procedures in place to reduce our exposure to these risks, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedures will be effective or that we will not be exposed to such claims, allegations or legal proceedings.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in fraudulent conduct or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates:. <U+0095> FDA, DEA or similar regulations of foreign regulatory authorities, including those laws requiring the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to such authorities;    <U+0095> manufacturing standards;    <U+0095> federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, anti-bribery and corruption laws, and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by foreign regulatory authorities; or    <U+0095> laws that require the reporting of financial information or data accurately.. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing, bribery and corruption and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of civil,. -68-. Table of Contents. criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures or security breaches.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems, and those of our CROs, contract manufacturing organizations and other third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, security breaches, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our clinical activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our commercialization of our product and our product candidate development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach was to result in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur significant unexpected losses, expenses and liabilities, we could face litigation or suffer reputational harm and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders maintain the ability to exert significant influence and control over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval.. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated stockholders beneficially own shares representing approximately 23% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to exert significant influence and control over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, could influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other business combination or reorganization. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of us on terms that other stockholders may desire. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act, whether by meeting or written consent of stockholders, in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including obtaining a premium value for their common stock, and might affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our corporate charter and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team,. -69-. Table of Contents. these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions:. <U+0095> establish a classified board of directors, and, as a result, not all directors are elected at one time;     <U+0095> allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;     <U+0095> limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from our board of directors;    <U+0095> establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors;    <U+0095> require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent;    <U+0095> limit who may call stockholder meetings;    <U+0095> authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and     <U+0095> require the approval of the holders of at least 67% of the outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal certain provisions of our charter or bylaws.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K, these factors include:. <U+0095> the success of competitive products or technologies;    <U+0095> regulatory actions with respect to our product or product candidates or our competitors' products or product candidates;     <U+0095> actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;    <U+0095> the outcome of any patent infringement or other litigation that may be brought against us;    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;    <U+0095> results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors;    <U+0095> regulatory or legal developments in the EU, United States and other countries;    <U+0095> developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;     <U+0095> the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. -70-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the level of expenses related to our product or any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;     <U+0095> actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> the number and characteristics of our efforts to in-license or acquire additional product candidates or products;     <U+0095> introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;    <U+0095> failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public;     <U+0095> actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;     <U+0095> variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;    <U+0095> fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;    <U+0095> share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;     <U+0095> announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts;    <U+0095> sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders;    <U+0095> changes in accounting practices;    <U+0095> lawsuits and other claims asserted against us;    <U+0095> changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;    <U+0095> market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;    <U+0095> general economic, industry and market conditions;    <U+0095> publication of research reports about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities or industry analysts;    <U+0095> other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control; and    <U+0095> the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, the stock market in general, and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks stated above could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. As we operate in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. -71-. Table of Contents. The capped call transactions may affect the value of the Convertible Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with respect to the Convertible Notes with certain hedge counterparties. The capped call transactions will cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the aggregate number of shares of common stock underlying the Convertible Notes and are expected generally to reduce potential dilution to the common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in excess of the principal amount of such converted Convertible Notes. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, the hedge counterparties (or their affiliates) entered into various derivative transactions with respect to the common stock concurrently with, and/or purchased the common stock shortly after, the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The hedge counterparties (or their affiliates) are likely to modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to the common stock and/or by purchasing or selling the common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during the settlement averaging period under the capped call transactions, which precedes the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, and on or around any earlier conversion date related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes). The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock, which could affect the value of the Convertible Notes and the value of our common stock, if any, that the convertible noteholders receive upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Certain holders of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also have registered on a Form S-8 registration statement all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates. In addition, certain of our employees, executive officers and directors have entered into, or may enter into, Rule 10b5-1 plans providing for sales of shares of our common stock from time to time. Under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, a broker executes trades pursuant to parameters established by the employee, director or officer when entering into the plan, without further direction from the employee, officer or director. A Rule 10b5-1 plan may be amended or terminated in some circumstances. Our employees, executive officers and directors may also buy or sell additional shares outside of a Rule 10b5-1 plan when they are not in possession of material, nonpublic information.. We may fail to qualify for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares.. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ. As a NASDAQ listed company, we are required to satisfy the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ for inclusion in the Global Market to maintain such listing, including, among other things, the maintenance of a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share and stockholders' equity of at least $10.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements or that our common stock will not be delisted from NASDAQ in the future. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. <U+0095> a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;. -72-. Table of Contents. <U+0095> reduced liquidity with respect to our securities;    <U+0095> a determination that our shares are a \"penny stock,\" which will require brokers trading in our shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our shares;    <U+0095> a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and    <U+0095> a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not initiate or continue coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline.. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and cash equivalents and may not use them effectively.. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and cash equivalents, and investors must rely on the judgment of our management regarding the use of our cash and cash equivalents. Our management may not use cash and cash equivalents in ways that ultimately increase the value of your investment. Our failure to use our cash and cash equivalents effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our common stock to decline and delay the development of our product and product candidates. Pending their use, we may invest our cash and cash equivalents in short-term or long-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield favorable returns. If we do not invest or apply our cash and cash equivalents in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations reflect the reality that judgments can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. -73-. Table of Contents. If the common stock issued as consideration in our recent acquisitions is sold, such sales could cause our common stock price to decline.. The issuance of our common stock in connection with the Scioderm and MiaMed acquisitions could have the effect of depressing the market price for our common stock, through dilution of earnings per share or otherwise. All of the shares of common stock issued to the former security holders of Scioderm and MiaMed in connection with the closings of the acquisitions have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), pursuant to automatic shelf registration statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-207210 and 333-212414, respectively for the Scioderm and MiaMed acquisitions) and may now be resold by the former security holders of Scioderm and MiaMed to investors in the general market.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders sole source of gain for the foreseeable future."
