[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms \"Anadarko\" and \"Company\" refer to Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company has made in this Form 10-K, and may from time to time make in other public filings, press releases, and management discussions, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, concerning the Company's operations, economic performance, and financial condition. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, information concerning future production and reserves, schedules, plans, timing of development, contributions from oil and gas properties, marketing and midstream activities, and also include those statements preceded by, followed by, or that otherwise include the words \"may,\" \"could,\" \"believes,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"estimates,\" \"projects,\" \"target,\" \"goal,\" \"plans,\" \"objective,\" \"should,\" \"would,\" \"will,\" \"potential,\" \"continue,\" \"forecast,\" \"future,\" \"likely,\" \"outlook,\" or similar expressions or variations on such expressions. For such statements, the Company claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will be realized. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.. These forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's expectations include, but are not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties:. • the Company's assumptions about energy markets. • production and sales volume levels. • levels of oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves. • operating results. • competitive conditions. • technology. • availability of capital resources, levels of capital expenditures, and other contractual obligations. • supply and demand for, the price of, and the commercialization and transporting of oil, natural gas, NGLs, and other products or services. • volatility in the commodity-futures market. • weather. • inflation. • availability of goods and services, including unexpected changes in costs. • drilling and other operational risks. • processing volumes, pipeline throughput, and produced water disposal. • general economic conditions, nationally, internationally, or in the jurisdictions in which the Company is, or in the future may be, doing business. • the Company's inability to timely obtain or maintain permits or other governmental approvals, including those necessary for drilling and/or development projects. • legislative or regulatory changes, including changes relating to hydraulic fracturing; retroactive royalty or production tax regimes; deepwater drilling and permitting regulations; derivatives reform; changes in state, federal, and foreign income taxes; environmental regulation, including regulations related to climate change; environmental risks; and liability under international, provincial, federal, regional, state, tribal, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • civil or political unrest or acts of terrorism in a region or country. • the creditworthiness and performance of the Company's counterparties, including financial institutions, operating partners, and other parties. • volatility in the securities, capital, or credit markets and related risks such as general credit, liquidity, and interest-rate risk. • the Company's ability to successfully monetize select assets, repay or refinance its debt, and the impact of changes in the Company's credit ratings. • the Company's ability to successfully complete its share-repurchase program. • uncertainties associated with acquired properties and businesses. • disruptions in international oil and NGLs cargo shipping activities. • physical, digital, cyber, internal, and external security breaches. • supply and demand, technological, political, governmental, and commercial conditions associated with long-term development and production projects in domestic and international locations. • the outcome of pending and future regulatory, legislative, or other proceedings or investigations, including the investigation by the NTSB related to the Company's operations in Colorado, and continued or additional disruptions in operations that may occur as the Company complies with regulatory orders or other state or local changes in laws or regulations in Colorado. • other factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and in the Company's other public filings, press releases, and discussions with Company management. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. RISK FACTORS. Our business and operations are subject to significant hazards and risks, such as the risks described below. Such risks may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. Oil, natural-gas, and NGLs price volatility, including a substantial or extended decline in the price of these commodities, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Prices for oil, natural gas, and NGLs can fluctuate widely. Our revenues, operating results, cash flows from operations, capital budget, and future growth rates are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas, and NGLs. The markets for oil, natural gas, and NGLs have been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile in the future. Factors influencing the prices of oil, natural gas, and NGLs are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • the domestic and worldwide supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas, and NGLs. • volatility and trading patterns in the commodity-futures markets. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, and marketing oil, natural gas, and NGLs. • the level of global oil and natural-gas inventories. • weather conditions. • the level of U.S. exports of oil, LNG, or NGLs. • the ability of the members of OPEC and other producing nations to agree to and maintain production levels. • the worldwide military and political environment, civil and political unrest worldwide, including in Africa and the Middle East, uncertainty or instability resulting from the escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities, or acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere. • the effect of worldwide energy conservation and environmental protection efforts. • the price and availability of alternative and competing fuels. • the level of foreign imports of oil, natural gas, and NGLs. • domestic and foreign governmental laws, regulations, and taxes. • shareholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. • the proximity to, and capacity of, natural-gas pipelines and other transportation facilities. • general economic conditions worldwide. 33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of oil, natural gas, and NGLs is uncertain. Prolonged or substantial decline in these commodity prices may have the following effects on our business:. • adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures, and results of operations. • reduce the amount of oil, natural gas, and NGLs that we can produce economically. • cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects. • reduce our revenues, operating income, or cash flows. • reduce the amounts of our estimated proved oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves. • reduce the carrying value of our oil, natural-gas, and midstream properties due to recognizing additional impairments of proved properties, unproved properties, exploration assets, and midstream facilities. • reduce the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves. • limit our access to, or increasing the cost of, sources of capital such as equity and long-term debt. • adversely affect the ability of our partners to fund their working interest capital requirements. We are subject to complex laws and regulations relating to environmental protection that can adversely affect the cost, manner, and feasibility of doing business.. Our operations and properties are subject to numerous international, provincial, federal, regional, state, tribal, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the release of pollutants or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the following, among other things:. • issuance of permits in connection with exploration, drilling, production, produced water disposal, and other midstream activities. • drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas. • types, quantities, and concentrations of emissions, discharges, and authorized releases. • generation, management, and disposition of waste materials. • offshore oil and natural-gas operations and decommissioning of abandoned facilities. • reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites. • remediation of contaminated sites. • protection of endangered species. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. These laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for our failure to comply or for any contamination resulting from our operations, including the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial, and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development, or expansion of projects; and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities in a particular area. Moreover, changes in, or reinterpretations of, environmental laws and regulations governing areas where we operate may negatively impact our operations. Examples of recent proposed and final regulations or other regulatory initiatives include the following:. • Ground-Level Ozone Standards. In October 2015, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ground-level ozone from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion under both the primary and secondary standards to provide requisite protection of public health and welfare, respectively. The EPA did not meet the October 1, 2017 deadline for designating non-attainment areas but, on November 6, 2017, issued final designations for areas in the United States that are in attainment with the 70 parts per billion standard, representing approximately 85% of the U.S. counties that became effective on January 18, 2018. For the remaining areas of the United States, the EPA has not yet prepared final designations, but is expected to do so in a separate future action in the first half of 2018. Reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modified facilities in new designated non-attainment areas. Also, states that are designated as non-attainment are expected to implement more stringent regulations, which could, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment, result in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs.. • Reduction of Methane Emissions by the Oil and Gas Industry. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified, and reconstructed oil and natural-gas production and natural-gas processing and transmission facilities. The EPA's rule is under the New Source Performance Standards, Subpart OOOOa, that requires certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural-gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards would expand previously issued New Source Performance Standards, Subpart OOOO, published by the EPA in 2012 by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices with respect to, among other things, hydraulically fractured oil and natural-gas well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressors, and pneumatic pumps. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 standards remain in effect, but future implementation of the standards are uncertain at this time. Furthermore, in June 2017, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) stayed a rule published in November 2016 imposing requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaking on public lands. On October 4, 2017, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California struck down the June 2017 stay. However, on December 8, 2017, the BLM published a final rule that will temporarily suspend certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019. The December 2017 compliance extension was challenged by non-governmental organizations and several states on December 19, 2017. Notwithstanding the current uncertainty, we have taken measures to enter into a voluntary regime, together with certain other oil and natural gas exploration and production operators, to reduce methane emissions. At the state level, some states are considering and others have issued requirements, including Colorado where we conduct operations, for the performance of leak-detection programs that identify and repair methane leaks at certain oil and natural-gas sources. Compliance with these rules or future methane regulations will, among other things, require installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment and increase our capital expenditures and operating costs.. 35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Induced Seismic Activity Associated with Oilfield Disposal Wells. We dispose of wastewater generated from oil and natural-gas production operations directly or through the use of third parties. The legal requirements related to the disposal of wastewater in underground injections wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near injection wells used for the disposal of produced water resulting from oil and natural-gas activities. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Colorado developed and follows guidance when issuing underground injection control permits to limit the maximum injection pressure, rate, and volume of water. Oklahoma has issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, is developing and implementing plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has also adopted similar permitting, operating, and reporting rules for disposal wells. In addition, ongoing class action lawsuits, to which we are not currently a party, allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by us or by commercial disposal well vendors whom we may use from time to time to dispose of wastewater, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures and operating costs, financial condition, and results of operations.. • Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. The U.S. Congress and the EPA, in addition to some state and regional authorities, have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. In the absence of federal GHG-limiting legislation, the EPA has determined that GHG emissions present a danger to public health and the environment and has adopted regulations that, among other things, restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act and may require the installation of \"best available control technology\" to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we may seek to construct in the future if they would otherwise emit large volumes of GHGs together with other criteria pollutants. Also, certain of our operations are subject to EPA rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although this international agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. Notwithstanding any withdrawal from this agreement, the implementation of substantial limitations on GHG emissions in areas where we conduct operations could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves.. These and other regulatory changes could significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating costs or could result in delays to or limitations on our exploration and production activities, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of certain environmental proceedings in which we are involved, see Legal Proceedings under Item 3 and Note 17 - Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. 36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Laws and regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing or other oil and natural-gas operations could increase our costs of doing business, result in additional operating restrictions or delays, limit the areas in which we can operate, and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an essential and common practice used to stimulate production of oil and natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations such as shales. We routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques in many of our U.S. onshore oil and natural-gas drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant, and chemical additives under pressure into a targeted subsurface formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production.. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural-gas commissions and similar agencies. However, several federal agencies have also asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in June 2016, the EPA published a final rule prohibiting the discharge of return water recovered from shale natural-gas extraction operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Also, the BLM published a final rule in March 2015 that establishes new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian land. This rule was struck down by a Wyoming federal judge, but in June 2016, the decision was appealed by the BLM to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. However, in July 2017, the BLM published a proposed rule to rescind the 2015 final rule. In September 2017, the Tenth Circuit Court issued a ruling to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in light of the BLM's proposed rulemaking. The timing of a final rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule is uncertain and, as a result of these developments, future implementation of the 2015 rule is uncertain at this time. Also, from time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in the U.S. Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In the event that new federal restrictions on the hydraulic-fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we may incur significant additional costs or permitting requirements to comply with such federal requirements, and could experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities.. In addition to asserting regulatory authority, a number of federal entities have reviewed various environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances\".. Certain states in which we operate, including Colorado, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Texas, and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, or other regulatory requirements on hydraulic-fracturing or other oil and natural-gas operations, including subsurface water disposal. For instance, in May 2017, the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC) issued a two-phase Notice to Operators (NTO) requiring all operators to inventory and integrity test existing flowlines within 1,000 feet of a building unit and inspect and complete abandonment of all inactive flowlines regardless of distance to a building unit. Furthermore, in August 2017, following a three month review of oil and gas operations, the Governor of Colorado announced several policy initiatives designed to enhance public safety, which are to be implemented through rulemaking or legislation. As part of these policy initiatives, on February 13, 2017, the COGCC approved new regulations addressing the operation of flowlines and related infrastructure associated with oil and natural-gas development, including more stringent requirements relating to design, installation, maintenance, testing, tracking, and abandoning of flowlines.. States also could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. For example, several cities in Colorado passed temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing within their respective city limits beginning in 2012 but, since that time, local district courts have struck down the ordinances for certain of those Colorado cities, which decisions were upheld by the Colorado Supreme Court in 2016. Notwithstanding attempts at the local level to prohibit hydraulic fracturing, the opportunity exists for cities to adopt local ordinances allowing hydraulic fracturing activities within their jurisdictions while regulating the time, place, and manner of those activities.. 37. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Additionally, certain interest groups in Colorado opposed to oil and natural-gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, have from time to time advanced various options for ballot initiatives that, if approved, would allow revisions to the state constitution in a manner that would make such exploration and production activities in the state more difficult or expensive in the future. However, an amendment on the Colorado 2016 ballot was approved by voters, making it more difficult to place an initiative to amend the constitution on the state ballot by requiring signatures from 2% of registered voters from each of the state's 35 Senate districts and approval by 55% of the voters. In the event that ballot initiatives, local or state restrictions, or prohibitions are adopted and result in more stringent limitations on the production and development of oil and natural gas in areas where we conduct operations, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or may experience delays or curtailment in the permitting or pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities. In addition, we could possibly be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Such compliance costs and delays, curtailments, limitations, or prohibitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Our Tronox settlement may not be deductible for income tax purposes, and we may be required to repay the tax refund of $881 million received in 2016 related to the deduction of the Tronox settlement payment, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.. In April 2014, Anadarko and Kerr-McGee Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Kerr-McGee) entered into a settlement agreement for $5.15 billion, resolving all claims that were or could have been asserted in the Tronox Adversary Proceeding. After the settlement became effective in January 2015, we paid $5.2 billion and deducted this payment on our 2015 federal income tax return. Due to the deduction, we had a net operating loss carryback for 2015, which resulted in a tentative tax refund of $881 million in 2016. In our financial statements, we have recorded an uncertain tax position greater than the amount of the tentative tax refund received.. The IRS has audited our tax position regarding the deductibility of the payment and issued a draft notice of proposed adjustment denying our deduction in its entirety. We disagree and plan to defend our tax position. It is possible that we may not ultimately succeed in defending this deduction. We could be required to repay all or a portion of the tentative refund received, with interest, prior to determining the final outcome of our tax position either upon IRS request or litigation of the matter in District or Federal Claims Court. If the payment is ultimately determined not to be deductible, we would be required to repay the tentative refund received plus interest and reverse the net benefit of $346 million previously recognized in our consolidated financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 13 - Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. 38. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility.. At December 31, 2017, our total debt of $15.7 billion consisted of $12.2 billion related to Anadarko and $3.5 billion related to WES and WGP. We also have various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, and purchase obligations for services and products. Our financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to, the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. • limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise fully realize the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of our debt. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. Additionally, the credit agreements governing the APC RCF and our 364-Day Facility contain a number of customary covenants, including a financial covenant requiring maintenance of a consolidated indebtedness to total capitalization ratio of no greater than 65% (excluding the effect of non-cash write-downs), and limitations on certain secured indebtedness, sale-and-leaseback transactions, and mergers and other fundamental changes. Our ability to meet such covenants may be affected by events beyond our control.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital.. As of December 31, 2017, our long-term debt was rated \"BBB\" with a stable outlook by S&P and Fitch. Our long-term debt was rated \"Ba1\" with a stable outlook by Moody's, which is below investment grade. As of the time of filing this Form 10-K, no additional changes in our credit rating have occurred and we are not aware of any current plans of S&P, Fitch, or Moody's to revise their respective credit ratings on our long-term debt; however, we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be further downgraded. Any further downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of capital and could also adversely affect our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy or to raise debt in the public debt markets.. As a result of Moody's below-investment-grade rating of our long-term debt in February 2016, we are more likely to be required to post collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash as financial assurance of our performance under certain contractual arrangements such as pipeline transportation contracts and oil and gas sales contracts. The amount of letters of credit or cash provided as assurance of our performance under these types of contractual arrangements with respect to credit-risk-related contingent features was $263 million at December 31, 2017, and $274 million at December 31, 2016. Additionally, certain of these arrangements contain financial-assurances language that may, under certain circumstances, permit our counterparties to request additional collateral.. Furthermore, as a result of Moody's rating, the credit thresholds with certain derivative counterparties were reduced and in some cases eliminated, which required us to increase the amount of collateral posted with derivative counterparties when our net trading position is a liability in excess of the contractual threshold. We may be required to post additional collateral with respect to our derivative instruments if our credit ratings decline below current levels. For example, based on year-end derivative positions, if Anadarko's credit rating were to be downgraded one level by either S&P or Moody's, we would be required to post additional collateral of up to approximately $50 million. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features for which a net liability position existed was $1.4 billion (net of $170 million of collateral) at December 31, 2017, and $1.4 billion (net of $117 million of collateral) at December 31, 2016. For additional information, see Note 10 - Derivative Instruments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. Additionally, in February 2016, Moody's downgraded our commercial paper program credit rating, which eliminated our access to the commercial paper market.. 39. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserves estimates or assumptions underlying our reserves estimates could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated.. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. The reserves information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K represents estimates prepared by our internal engineers. The procedures and methods for estimating the reserves by our internal engineers were reviewed by independent petroleum consultants; however, no reserves audit was conducted by these consultants. Estimation of reserves is not an exact science. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves and of future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions, any of which may cause actual results to vary considerably from these estimates. These factors and assumptions may include, but are not limited to, the following:. • estimated future production from an area is consistent with historical production from similar producing areas. • assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and court rulings. • assumptions concerning future oil, natural-gas, and NGLs prices, future operating costs, and capital expenditures. • estimates of future severance and excise taxes, workover costs, and remedial costs. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected future net cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues, and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and the variance may be material. The discounted cash flows included in this Form 10-K should not be construed as the fair value of the estimated oil, natural-gas, and NGLs reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the average beginning-of-month prices during the 12-month period for the respective year. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from the SEC regulation-compliant prices used for purposes of estimating future discounted net cash flows from proved reserves. Therefore, reserves quantities will change when actual prices increase or decrease.. Failure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business.. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop, or acquire additional oil and natural-gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities, acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We may be unable to find, develop, or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil and natural-gas prices increase, our costs for finding or acquiring additional reserves could also increase.. Our domestic operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations.. Our domestic operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and are subject to complex provincial, federal, regional, state, tribal, local, and other laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, permitting, changes in taxes, deductions, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering-rate controls, and hydraulic fracturing, induced seismicity, and environmental protection regulations. To the extent our domestic operations are offshore, we must also comply with requirements focused on oil and natural-gas exploration and production activities in coastal and outer continental shelf (OCS) waters. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various provincial, federal, regional, state, tribal, and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations.. 40. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Future economic, business, or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.. During the last few years, concerns over inflation, potential default on U.S. debt, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and uncertainties with regard to European sovereign debt, have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. Continued concerns could cause demand for petroleum products to diminish or stagnate, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas, and NGLs and impede the execution of long-term sales agreements or prices thereunder, which are the basis for future LNG production; affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers, and customers to continue operations; and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.. We are vulnerable to risks associated with our offshore operations that could negatively impact our operations and financial results.. We conduct offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico, Ghana, Mozambique, and other countries. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by conditions in some of these areas and are also vulnerable to certain unique risks associated with operating offshore, including those relating to the following:. • hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions. • geological complexities and water depths associated with such operations. • limited number of partners available to participate in projects. • oilfield service costs and availability. • compliance with environmental, safety, and other laws and regulations. • terrorist attacks or piracy. • remediation and other costs and regulatory changes resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials. • failure of equipment or facilities. • response capabilities for personnel, equipment, or environmental incidents. In addition, we conduct some of our exploration in deep waters (greater than 1,000 feet) where operations, support services, and decommissioning activities are more difficult and costly than in shallower waters. The deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as international deepwater locations, lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in shallower waters. As a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and the time that we can market our production, thereby increasing the risk involved with these operations.. 41. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Additional domestic and international deepwater drilling laws, regulations, and other restrictions; delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits and exploration, development, oil spill-response, and decommissioning plans; and other related developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In recent years, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) and the BSEE, agencies of the U.S. Department of the Interior, have imposed more stringent permitting procedures and regulatory safety and performance requirements for new wells to be drilled in federal waters. For example, in 2016, BSEE finalized rule-making entitled \"Oil and Sulfur Operations on the Outer Continental Shelf  -  Blowout Prevention Systems and Well Control,\" which focuses on well blowout preventer systems and well control with respect to operations on the OCS. Compliance with these more stringent regulatory requirements and with existing environmental and oil spill regulations, together with any uncertainties or inconsistencies in decisions and rulings by governmental agencies, delays in the processing and approval of drilling permits or exploration, development, oil spill-response and decommissioning plans, and possible additional regulatory initiatives could result in difficult and more costly actions and adversely affect or delay new drilling and ongoing development efforts.. In addition, new regulatory initiatives may be adopted or enforced by the BOEM or the BSEE in the future that could result in additional costs, delays, restrictions, or obligations with respect to oil and natural-gas exploration and production operations conducted offshore. For example, in April 2016, the BOEM published a proposed rule that would update existing air-emissions requirements relating to offshore oil and natural-gas activity on federal OCS waters including in the Central Gulf of Mexico. In addition, in September 2016, the BOEM issued a Notice to Lessees and Operators that would bolster supplemental bonding procedures for the decommissioning of offshore wells, platforms, pipelines, and other facilities; however, since the BOEM's issuance of the Notice to Lessees, the agency has delayed the implementation timeline for most of those facilities so that BOEM could further assess this financial assurance program, but this delay is expected to be temporary. These regulatory actions, or any new rules, regulations, or legal initiatives, could delay or disrupt our operations, increase the risk of expired leases due to the time required to develop new technology, result in increased supplemental bonding and costs, and limit activities in certain areas, or cause us to incur penalties, fines, or shut-in production at one or more of our facilities or result in the suspension or cancellation of leases. Moreover, under existing BOEM and BSEE rules relating to assignment of offshore leases and other legal interests on the OCS, assignors of such interests may be held jointly and severally liable for decommissioning of OCS facilities existing at the time the assignment was approved by the BOEM, in the event that the assignee is unable or unwilling to conduct required decommissioning. In the event that we, in the role of assignor, receive orders from the BSEE to decommission OCS facilities that one of our assignees of offshore facilities is unwilling or unable to perform, we could incur costs to perform those decommissioning obligations, which costs could be material.. In addition, our offshore development activities rely on subcontractors to perform certain offshore construction and installation activities. The Jones Act requires that vessels engaged in U.S. coastwise trade be built in the United States, registered under the U.S. flag, manned by predominantly U.S. crews, and owned and operated by U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. Under existing U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) rulings, the Jones Act is not applicable to foreign vessels conducting certain construction and pipeline installation activities on the OCS. Recently, the U.S. Marine Vessel Owners Association filed a lawsuit seeking to compel CBP to revoke a number of long-standing ruling letters relating to this exemption. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain. However, if the litigation is successful and the rulings are revoked, foreign flagged vessels could no longer perform certain operations for us in compliance with the Jones Act. The existing fleet of U.S. vessels are currently incapable of performing these construction and installation activities. As a result, certain of our development efforts could be delayed, disrupted or even suspended.. Also, if material spill events were to occur in the future, the United States or other countries where such an event were to occur could issue directives to temporarily cease drilling activities and, in any event, may from time to time issue further safety and environmental laws and regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development. We cannot predict with any certainty the full impact of any new laws, regulations, or legal initiatives on our drilling operations or on the cost or availability of insurance to cover the risks associated with such operations. The overall costs to implement and complete any such spill response activities or any decommissioning obligations could exceed estimated accruals, insurance limits, or supplemental bonding amounts, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs to complete.. 42. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Further, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico (as well as international deepwater locations) lacks the degree of physical and oilfield service infrastructure present in shallower waters. Therefore, despite our oil spill-response capabilities, it may be difficult for us to quickly or effectively execute any contingency plans related to potential material events in the future.. The matters described above, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. We operate in foreign countries and are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties.. We have operations outside the United States, including in Algeria, Ghana, Mozambique, Colombia, and other countries. As a result, we face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to our international operations. These risks may include the following, among other things:. • loss of revenue, property, and equipment or delays in operations as a result of hazards such as expropriation, war, piracy, acts of terrorism, insurrection, civil unrest, and other political risks, including tension and confrontations among political parties. • transparency issues in general and, more specifically, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption compliance laws and issues. • increases in taxes and governmental royalties. • unilateral renegotiation of contracts by governmental entities. • redefinition of international boundaries or boundary disputes. • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations. • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies. • foreign-exchange restrictions. • international monetary fluctuations and changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business. Outbreaks of civil and political unrest and acts of terrorism have occurred in countries in Europe, Africa, South America, and the Middle East, including countries close to or where we conduct operations. Continued or escalated civil and political unrest and acts of terrorism in the countries in which we operate could result in our curtailing operations. In the event that countries in which we operate experience civil or political unrest or acts of terrorism, especially in events where such unrest leads to an unseating of the established government, our operations in such countries could be materially impaired.. Our international operations may also be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by laws, policies, and regulations of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation, including U.S. trade sanctions.. Realization of any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 43. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, or qualified personnel. The cost for such items may increase as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel, and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services, and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, or qualified personnel. However, if commodity prices rise, such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue and their availability to us may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Deterioration in the credit or equity markets could adversely affect us.. We have exposure to different counterparties. For example, we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies, investment funds, and other institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty. Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have exposure to these financial institutions through our derivative transactions. In addition, if any lender under our credit facilities is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender's commitment under our credit facilities. Moreover, to the extent that purchasers of our production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to us if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time.. Exploration, development, and production activities carry inherent risk. These activities could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. In addition, we are not insured against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed.. Our business is subject to all of the hazards and operating risks normally associated with the exploration for and production, gathering, processing, and transportation of oil and natural gas, including blowouts; cratering and fire; environmental hazards such as natural-gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and vessel ruptures, and releases of chemicals or other hazardous substances, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, oil and natural-gas wells or formations, production facilities, and other property; pollution or other environmental damage; and injury to persons. Some of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses by reducing or shutting in production from wells, resulting in loss of equipment or otherwise negatively impacting the projected economic performance of our projects. Any of these risks or hazards can result in injuries and/or deaths of employees, supplier personnel or other individuals, loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties or the properties of others, regulatory investigations, litigation, fines, and penalties or restricted access to our properties.. For protection against financial loss resulting from these operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage, including insurance coverage for certain physical damage, blowout/loss of control of a well, comprehensive general liability, aviation liability, and worker's compensation and employer's liability. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover us against 100% of potential losses arising as a result of the foregoing and for certain risks, such as political risk, business interruption, war, terrorism, and piracy, for which we have limited or no coverage. In addition, we are not insured against all risks in all aspects of our business such as hurricanes. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 44. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our commodity-price risk-management and trading activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from price increases and may expose us to regulatory and other risks.. To the extent that we engage in commodity-price risk-management activities to protect our cash flows from commodity-price declines, we may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the levels of the derivative instruments used to manage price risk. In addition, our commodity-price risk-management and trading activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the following occur:. • our production is less than the notional volumes. • a widening of price basis differentials occurs between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative arrangement. • the counterparties to our hedging or other price-risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements. • a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil, natural-gas, or NGLs prices. We are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other agencies with regard to our commodity-price risk-management activities, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failures to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Material differences between the estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect the completion of and commencement of production from development projects.. We are involved in several large development projects and the completion of those projects may be delayed beyond our anticipated completion dates. Key factors that may affect the timing and outcome of such projects include the following:. • project approvals and funding by joint-venture partners. • timely issuance of permits and licenses by governmental agencies or legislative and other governmental approvals. • weather conditions. • availability of qualified personnel. • civil and political environment of, and existing infrastructure in, the country or region in which the project is located. • manufacturing and delivery schedules of critical equipment. • commercial arrangements for pipelines, tankers, and related equipment to transport and market hydrocarbons. Delays and differences between estimated and actual timing of critical events may affect the forward-looking statements related to large development projects and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The oil and gas exploration and production industry is very competitive, and some of our exploration and production competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do.. The oil and gas business is highly competitive in the search for and acquisition of reserves and in the gathering and marketing of oil and gas production. Our competitors include national oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies, individual producers, gas marketers, and major pipeline companies as well as participants in other industries supplying energy and fuel to consumers. Some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse resources on which to draw than we do. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and gas reserves or in our marketing of production, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 45. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our drilling activities may not encounter commercially productive oil or natural-gas reservoirs.. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural-gas reservoirs. Drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including the following:. • unexpected drilling conditions. • pressure or irregularities in formations. • equipment failures or accidents. • fires, explosions, blowouts, and surface cratering. • marine risks such as capsizing, collisions, and hurricanes. • difficulty identifying and retaining qualified personnel. • title problems. • other adverse weather conditions. • lack of availability or delays in the delivery of technology, equipment, or resources for operations. Certain of our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, could result in a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Because a portion of our capital budget is devoted to higher-risk exploratory projects, it is likely that we will continue to experience significant exploration and dry hole expenses.. We have limited influence over the activities on properties we do not operate.. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. We have limited ability to influence the operation or future development of these nonoperated properties or the amount or timing of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. Our dependence on the operator and other working-interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital, lead to unexpected future costs, or adversely affect the timing of activities.. Our ability to sell and deliver our oil, natural-gas, and NGLs production could be materially harmed if adequate gathering, processing, compression, transportation, and disposal facilities and equipment are unavailable.. The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering, processing, compression, transportation, tankers, pipeline, and produced water facilities. These facilities may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, regulatory reasons, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions. If any pipelines or tankers become unavailable, we would, to the extent possible, be required to find a suitable alternative to transport the oil, natural gas, and NGLs, which could increase our costs and/or reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of the oil and natural-gas. In addition, in certain newer plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression, transportation, and disposal facilities and equipment may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells. Construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and regulatory or other constraints could limit or delay the construction, manufacture or other acquisition of new gathering, processing, compression, transportation, and disposal facilities and equipment, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or rail systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery or disposing of produced water.. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression, transportation, or disposal facilities and equipment or the availability of these facilities, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities and equipment on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments.. As a result of mergers and acquisitions, we had approximately $4.8 billion of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2017. Goodwill must be tested at least annually for impairment, and more frequently when circumstances indicate likely impairment. Goodwill is considered impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds its implied fair value. Various factors could reduce the fair value of a reporting unit such as our inability to replace the value of our depleting asset base, difficulty or potential delays in obtaining drilling permits, or other adverse events such as lower oil and natural-gas prices, which could lead to an impairment of goodwill. An impairment of goodwill could have a substantial negative effect on our reported earnings.. Risks related to acquisitions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Any acquisition, including the GOM Acquisition, involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • the validity of our assumptions about, among other things, reserves, estimated production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and costs. • the assumption of environmental, decommissioning, and other liabilities, and losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate. • a failure to attain or maintain compliance with environmental, safety, and other governmental regulations. If any of these risks materialize, the benefits of such acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cyber threats, and other disruptions.. As an oil and gas producer, we face various security threats, including cyber threats such as attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, sensitive information or to render data or systems corrupted or unusable; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or those of third parties such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. Our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities, and infrastructure may result in increased costs. We continuously work to install new, and upgrade existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training on phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to help ensure that we are protected, to the extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. We also perform periodic drills for responding to cyber incidences. There can be no assurance that such safeguards, procedures, and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. Cyber attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or control of our data, systems, or facilities, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data or systems, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. While we have experienced cyber attacks, we have not suffered any material losses relating to such attacks; however, there is no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. In addition, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate or remediate any cyber vulnerabilities.. 47. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control of Anadarko, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make a change of control of Anadarko difficult, even if it may be beneficial to our stockholders, including provisions governing the nomination and removal of directors, the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent and regulation of stockholders' ability to bring matters for action before annual stockholder meetings, and the authorization given to our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.. We may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common stock.. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at the current rate or at all. As of February 2018, our quarterly dividend was $0.25 per share. The amount of cash dividends, if any, to be paid in the future is determined by our Board of Directors based on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, levels of capital and exploration expenditures, future business prospects, expected liquidity needs, and other matters that our Board of Directors deems relevant.. Difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success.. Our exploratory drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers, and other professionals. Competition for such professionals could be intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed."
