[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information. This annual report on Form 10-K contains \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The use of words such as \"anticipates,\" \"estimates,\" \"expects,\" \"plans\" and \"believes,\" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: our future business, financial condition, results of operations and financial performance, our business strategy, trends in the home services industry, expected synergies and other benefits to be realized by us following the Combination and. 9. other similar matters.  These forward-looking statements are based on the expectations and assumptions of our management about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict.. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below.  Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time.  In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate.  Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of our management as of the date of this annual report.  We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements.. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The home services industry is competitive, with a consistent and growing stream of new products, services and entrants and low switching costs. Innovation by our competitors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The home services industry is competitive, with a consistent and growing stream of new products, services and entrants.  Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical areas and/or with consumer and service professional demographics that we currently serve or may serve in the future. In addition, some of our competitors, given the primary business in which they engage, can market their products and services online in a more prominent and cost-effective manner than we can. Any of these advantages could enable our competitors to offer products and services that are more appealing to consumers and service professionals than our products and services and/or respond more quickly and/or cost effectively than we do to evolving market opportunities and trends. For example, search engine providers continue to expand their offerings into non-search-related categories, including home services. Search engine providers can and may display their own integrated or related home services products and services in search results in a more prominent manner than our products and services. This could result in a substantial decrease in free and paid traffic to our platforms and, in turn, increased marketing expenditures (particularly if free traffic is replaced with paid traffic).. In addition, since we offer most of our products and services to consumers for free, consumers can easily switch among home products and services at no cost to them. In the case of service professionals, while they may incur additional or duplicative near term costs, the costs for switching to a competing platform over the long term are generally not prohibitive. Low switching costs, coupled with the propensity of consumers to try new products and services generally, will most likely result in the continued emergence of new products and services, entrants and business models in the home services industry. Our inability to compete effectively against current or future competitors and new products and services that may emerge could result in decreases in the size and level of engagement of our consumer and service professional bases, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on the continued migration of the home services market online.. We believe that the digital penetration of the home services market remains low, with the vast majority of consumers continuing to search for, select and hire service professionals offline. While many consumer demographics have historically been (and remain) averse to finding service professionals online, others have demonstrated a greater willingness to embrace the online shift (for example, millennials). Service professionals must also embrace the online shift, which will depend, in substantial part, on whether online products and services help them to better connect and engage with consumers relative to traditional offline efforts. The speed and ultimate outcome of the shift of the home services market online for consumers and service professionals is uncertain and may not occur as quickly as we expect, or at all.  The failure or delay of a meaningful number of consumers and/or service professionals to migrate online and/or the return of a meaningful number of existing participants in the online home services market to offline solutions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. General economic events or trends, particularly those that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have historically been, and will continue to be, particularly sensitive to events and trends that adversely affect consumer confidence and spending behavior.  For example, in the event of a general economic downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions, consumer confidence, spending levels and access to credit could be adversely affected. The occurrence. 10. of any of these events or trends could result in consumers delaying or foregoing home services projects, which could result in decreases in Marketplace service requests and related fees paid by Marketplace service professionals for consumer matches, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, because a significant number of service professionals across our brands and businesses are sole proprietorships and small businesses, they may be particularly impacted by events and trends that adversely impact consumer confidence, spending behavior and access to credit.  If so, they may be less likely to pay for Marketplace membership and/or advertising, which could result in turnover at the Marketplace and/or any of our directories. Any significant and/or recurring turnover over a prolonged period could adversely impact the number and quality of service professionals in the Marketplace and our directories, as well as the reach of (and breadth of services offered through) the Marketplace and our directories, any or all of which could result in a decrease in traffic to our various brands and businesses and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Lastly, we have historically been, and will continue to be, sensitive to events and trends that could result in decreased marketing and advertising expenditures by service professionals. Adverse economic conditions and trends could result in service professionals decreasing and/or delaying membership subscriptions, fees paid for consumer matches and/or time-based advertising spend, any or all of which would result in decreased revenue and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will need to establish and maintain relationships with quality service professionals.. To succeed, we will need to continue to attract, retain and grow the number of skilled and reliable service professionals who can provide services that consumers want in a timely manner across our various brands and businesses. To do so, we must continue to offer innovative products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals generally, as well provide service professionals with an attractive return on their marketing and advertising investments. If we fail to provide compelling products and services across our various brands and businesses, Marketplace service professionals may leave (or fail to join) the Marketplace and certified service professionals may leave (of fail to join) the Angie's List nationwide online directory, one or both of which would result in a less attractive overall digital marketplace for consumers seeking quality service professionals. Any decrease in quality service professionals (or the lack of new quality service professionals) would result in a smaller and less diverse Marketplace and smaller and less diverse directories, which could adversely impact the consumer experience and, in turn, result in decreases in service requests and directory searches, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will depend, in substantial part, on our ability to maintain and/or enhance our various brands.. We own and operate two of the leading home services brands in the United States (Angie's List and HomeAdvisor), as well as leading brands in several foreign jurisdictions. Brand recognition is a key differentiating factor among providers of online services generally, and we believe that our success will depend, in substantial part, on our ability to maintain and enhance our established brands, as well as build awareness of (and loyalty to) new and emerging brands by consumers and service professionals alike.. Our various brands could be negatively impacted by several factors, including product and service quality concerns, service professional quality concerns, consumer and service professional complaints, actions brought by consumers and service professionals, fraudulent or otherwise unlawful acts perpetrated by consumers and service professionals, actions or proceedings commenced by governmental or regulatory authorities, privacy and security breaches and related bad publicity. In particular, factors that negatively impact the Angie's List and/or HomeAdvisor brand(s) could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, trust in the integrity and objective, unbiased nature of the ratings and reviews found across our various brands (particularly in the case of Angie's List) contributes significantly to public perception of these brands and their ability to attract new consumers and service professionals. If consumers perceive that consumer reviews are not authentic in general, the reputation and strength of the relevant brand could be materially and adversely affected.  While we use, and will continue to use, filters (among other processes) to detect fraudulent reviews, the accuracy of consumer reviews cannot be guaranteed. If fraudulent or inaccurate reviews (positive or negative) increase and we are unable to effectively identify and remove such reviews, the overall quality of the ratings and reviews across our various brands could decrease and the reputation of affected brands might be harmed. This could deter consumers and service professionals from using our products and services, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Lastly, as discussed in the risk factors below, the success of our brand-building efforts will also depend on our ability to market our products and services successfully (and/or in a cost-effective manner), communicate with consumers and service professionals via email, develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals and/or adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to evolving changes in the Internet and related technologies, applications and devices. If our brand-building efforts are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our brands and businesses may not be successful or cost-effective.. Attracting consumers and service professionals to our brands and businesses involves considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant marketing expenditures, primarily for digital marketing (primarily paid search engine marketing, display advertising and third party affiliate agreements) and traditional offline marketing (national television and radio campaigns). These efforts may not be successful or cost-effective.  Historically, we have had to increase marketing expenditures over time to attract and retain consumers and service professionals and sustain growth.. With respect to our online marketing efforts, rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines, as well as changing policies and guidelines applicable to keyword advertising (which may unilaterally be updated by search engines without advance notice), could adversely affect our paid search engine marketing efforts and free search engine traffic. Such changes could adversely affect paid listings (both their placement and pricing), as well as the ranking of our brands and businesses within paid and organic search results, any or all of which could increase our marketing expenditures (particularly if free traffic is replaced with paid traffic).. In addition, evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and media is increasingly consumed through various digital means, the reach of traditional advertising channels is contracting and the number of digital advertising channels is expanding. To continue to reach and engage with consumers and service professionals and grow in this environment, we will need to identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer digital advertising channels (such as online video and other digital platforms), as well as target consumers and service professionals via these channels. Generally, the opportunities in (and the sophistication of) newer advertising channels are undeveloped and unproven relative to traditional channels, which could make it difficult for us to assess returns on our marketing investment in newer channels. Additionally, as we increasingly depend on newer digital channels for traffic, these efforts will involve challenges and risks similar to those we face in connection with our search engine marketing efforts.. Lastly, we also enter into various third party affiliate agreements in an effort to drive traffic to our various brands and businesses. These arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing as a percentage of revenue could increase over the long-term.. No assurances can be provided that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to any or all of the events and trends discussed above and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Communicating with consumers and service professionals via email is critical to our success, and any erosion in our ability to communicate in this fashion that is not sufficiently replaced by other means could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, one of our primary means of communicating with consumers and service professionals and keeping them engaged with our products and services has been via email communication. Through email, we can provide consumers with service request updates and service professionals with updates regarding memberships and consumer matches, as well as present or suggest new products and services (among other things) to such consumers and service professionals and market our products and services to new consumers and service professionals in a cost-effective manner. As consumer habits evolve in the era of mobile and other digital devices and messaging and social networking apps, usage of email, particularly among younger consumers, has declined, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, deliverability and other restrictions imposed by third party email providers and/or applicable law could limit or prevent our ability to send emails to consumers and service professionals.  A continued and significant erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with consumers and service professionals via email could have an adverse impact on the consumer and service professional experience, levels of consumer and service professional engagement and the rate at which consumers become members and service professionals join the Marketplace or purchase advertising.. 12. While we continually work to find new means of communicating and connecting with consumers and service professionals (for example, through push notifications), there is no assurance that such alternative means of communication will be as effective as email has been historically.  Any failure to develop or take advantage of new means of communication and/or any limitation on such means (whether imposed by applicable law, mobile and other digital device manufacturers or otherwise) could adversely affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to introduce new and enhanced products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals and that we are able to effectively monetize will be critical to our success.. We will not succeed unless we continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services in response to evolving trends and technologies and provide quality products and services that otherwise resonate with consumers and service professionals. There is intense competition to operate leading digital marketplaces for home services (and for all consumer products and services generally), and digital marketplaces have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to rapid technological change. Generally, the development of new and enhanced products and services, as well as the identification of new business opportunities in a constantly evolving business and technological environment, requires significant time and resources. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to digital trends and/or trends in the home services market generally (including changes in consumer and service professional preferences and needs), appropriately time the introduction of new and enhanced products and services (and effectively monetize such products and services) and/or identify new business opportunities in a timely manner.. For example, as consumers and service professionals increasingly access our products and services through mobile and other digital devices (including digital voice assistants), we will need to devote significant time and resources to ensure that our products and services are accessible across these platforms (and across multiple platforms generally). Despite these efforts, we may not be able to keep pace with evolving digital trends and/or trends in the home services market generally (including changes in consumer and service professional preferences and needs). Even if we do, new and/or enhanced products and services that we offer may not resonate with consumers and service professionals (and, in turn, fail to generate sufficient traffic to our brands and businesses), could be more costly than anticipated or could require partnership or distribution arrangements with third party providers. Moreover, we may not be able to monetize products and services for mobile and other digital devices as effectively as we have been able to monetize our traditional products and services.. In addition, the success of our mobile and other digital applications is dependent on their interoperability with various third party operating systems, technology, infrastructure and standards over which we have no control and any changes to any of these things that compromise the quality or functionality of our mobile and other digital applications could adversely affect their usage levels, and in turn, our ability to attract consumers and service professionals. Our failure or inability to successfully respond to changes to these third party systems, technology, infrastructure and standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any failure to respond to evolving trends and technologies appropriately and/or in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Combination within the anticipated time frames or at all.. We expect to realize several substantial strategic and financial benefits as a result of the Combination.  Any or all of these benefits may not be realized as expected or may not be achieved within the anticipated time frames or at all. Our ability to realize these benefits will depend, in large part, on our ability to effect ongoing integration efforts in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated synergies and achieves related projected cost savings and revenue growth.. Our management must continue to devote significant attention and resources to ongoing integration efforts, which could disrupt our business, cause a loss of momentum in our activities and may otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing integration efforts could also result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, responses from competitors, loss of customer and other business relationships and the diversion of management attention.  f we are not able to efficiently and successfully effect ongoing integration efforts, any or all the benefits we expect to realize as a result of the Combination may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if our integration efforts are successful, any or all of these benefits may not be realized, including expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, due to competitive pressures, changes in general market or economic conditions or other factors.  Moreover, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the integration.  Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Our success will depend, in part, on the integrity, efficiency and scalability of our technology systems and infrastructures and on our ability to enhance, expand and adapt these systems and infrastructures in a timely and cost-effective manner.. For us to succeed, our technology systems and infrastructures must perform well on a consistent basis.  From time to time, we may experience system interruptions that make some or all of our systems, products, services and/or data unavailable and prevent our products and services from functioning properly.  Technology system and infrastructure interruptions could arise for any number of reasons.  Moreover, our technology systems and infrastructures will be vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events.  While we have backup systems in place for certain aspects of our operations, our technology systems and infrastructures will not be fully redundant, disaster recovery planning will not be sufficient for all eventualities and property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us fully for any losses that we may suffer.  Any technology system or infrastructure interruptions or outages, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect the consumer and service professional experience, tarnish the reputation of our various brands and businesses and decrease demand for our products and services, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will also depend on our continued ability to expand and enhance the efficiency and scalability of our technology systems and infrastructures to improve the consumer and service professional experience, accommodate substantial increases in traffic across our various platforms, ensure acceptable page load times for our products and services and keep pace with changes in technology, industry trends and consumer and service professional preferences and needs.  Any failure to do so in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect the consumer and service professional experience, which could adversely impact demand for our products and services and increase costs, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will depend, in part, on the integrity of third party systems and infrastructures.. We rely on third parties, primarily data center service providers, as well as third party computer systems, broadband and other communication systems and service providers, in connection with the provision of our products and services generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with consumers and service professionals.  We have limited or no control over these third parties and their operations.. Problems experienced by third party data center service providers upon whom we may rely, third party computer system, broadband and other communications systems and service providers with whom we contract or with the systems through which these providers allocate capacity among their customers could also adversely affect us.  Any changes in service levels at our data centers or any interruptions, outages or delays in third party technology systems and infrastructures upon which we rely or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide our products and services and/or process transactions with consumers and service professionals, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to protect our information technology systems and infrastructures from cyberattacks and may be adversely affected by cyberattacks experienced by third parties.. In connection with our day-to-day operations, we rely extensively on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our information technology systems and infrastructures.  We may be subject to attacks by perpetrators of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks and attempts to misappropriate consumer or service professional information (including credit card information), personal information and confidential business information.  While we invest, and will continue to invest, in the protection of our information technology systems and infrastructures and related training, there can be no assurances that these efforts will prevent significant breaches or other similar events from occurring.  As malicious cyber activity escalates, so do risks relating to the processing, storage and transmission of data both within and outside of our technology systems and infrastructures, including through third party service providers.  Any cyber or similar attack we experience could damage our technology systems and infrastructures, prevent us from providing our products and services, erode our reputation and those of our various brands and businesses, lead to the termination of advantageous contracts, result in inaccurate reporting of financial information, result in the disclosure of confidential consumer and service professional information, expose us to significant liabilities for the violation of data privacy laws, result in the disclosure of confidential and sensitive business information or intellectual property, result in claims or litigation against us and/or otherwise be costly to mitigate or remedy.  In addition, although we have insurance to mitigate some of these risks, such policies may not cover the particular cyber or similar attack experienced and, even if the risk is covered, such insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate for related losses.. 14. The impact of cybersecurity events experienced by third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day-to-day operations) could have similar effects on us.  Moreover, even cyber or similar attacks that do not directly affect us or third parties with whom we do business may result in a loss of consumer confidence in online and/or technology-reliant businesses generally, which could make consumers and service professionals less likely to use or continue to use our products and services.  The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unauthorized access to personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulations and legal requirements, and compliance with laws designed to prevent unauthorized access of personal data could be costly.. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to, or the use or transmission of, personal consumer and service professional information could result in a variety of claims against us, including privacy-related claims.  There are numerous laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information.  The scope and subject matter of these laws and regulations have changed considerably in the recent past and are expected to continue to evolve, and likely expand, in the future.  For example, the European Commission has adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, a comprehensive European Union privacy and data protection reform that is expected to become effective in May 2018.  In addition, the potential exit from the European Union by the United Kingdom could result in the application of new data privacy and protection laws and standards to our operations in the United Kingdom and the handling of personal data of consumers and service professionals located in the United Kingdom.  At the same time, various regulations and legislative proposals concerning privacy and the protection of consumer information are pending before the U.S. Congress and various U.S. state legislatures.. Any failure or perceived failure by us (or by third parties with whom we contract to store personal information) to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, policies or related contractual obligations or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access, use or disclosure to/of personal information could result in governmental enforcement actions, significant fines, litigation, claims of breach of contract and indemnity by third parties and adverse publicity.  In the case of such an event, our reputation and those of our various brands and businesses could be harmed, we could lose consumers and service professionals and the competitive positions of our various brands and businesses could be diminished, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Lastly, compliance with laws and regulations regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal data in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate could be costly, particularly if, as expected, such laws and regulations continue to evolve and become more comprehensive in scope or require changes to information technology systems and infrastructures, as well as our products and services. If these costs are significant, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to several risks related to credit card payments, including data security breaches and fraud that we or third parties may experience, as well as additional regulations, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We accept payments (including recurring payments) from service professionals and members, primarily through credit and debit card transactions. The ability to access payment information on a real-time basis without having to proactively reach out to service professionals and members to process payments is critical to our success.. When we or third parties experience a data security breach involving credit card information, affected cardholders will often cancel their credit cards.  In the case of a breach experienced by a third party, the more sizable the third party's customer base and the greater the number of credit card accounts impacted, the more likely it is that users of our products and services would be impacted by such a breach.  To the extent our service professionals and members are ever affected by such a breach, we may need to contact affected users to obtain new payment information and process any pending payments.  It is likely that we would not be able to reach all affected service professionals and members, and even if we could, some new payment information may not be obtained and some pending payments may not be processed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if service professionals and members are not directly impacted by a given data security breach, they may lose confidence in the ability of online service providers to protect their personal information generally, which could cause them to stop using their credit cards online and choose alternative payment methods that are not as convenient for us or restrict our ability to process payments without significant cooperation from service professionals or members.. 15. Our ability to access credit card information on a real-time basis without having to proactively reach out to service professionals and members could also be adversely impacted by increases in various fees charged by credit card companies and processors (such as transaction, interchange, chargeback and/or other fees), the malfunction of credit card billing systems and software and non-compliance with applicable payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), a security standard with which companies that collect, store or transmit certain data related to credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders and credit and debit card transactions are required to comply.  If we fail to adequately prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and comply with the PCI DSS, we could face litigation, fines, governmental enforcement action, civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, significantly higher credit card-related costs and substantial remediation costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Finally, the passage or adoption of any new legislation or regulations affecting our ability to periodically charge service professionals and members for recurring fees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties.. We rely heavily upon our trademarks, trade dress and related domain names and logos to market our brands and businesses and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets and patents.  We have generally registered, and to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective, will continue to apply to reserve, register and renew domain names where appropriate, as well as register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used. Not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available.  Similarly, effective trademark and service mark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contracts.. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions on access to and use of proprietary information with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our and their various intellectual property rights and employees and contractors are also subject to invention assignment provisions.. We have one patent issued in the United States, four patent applications currently pending in the United States and certain jurisdictions abroad and to the extent we believe it will be beneficial and cost-effective, may seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections where appropriate.  No assurances can be given that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against our competitors and similar technologies or that any patent application that any of our businesses have filed or that we may file will result in a patent being issued.  In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new intellectual property that achieves similar results without infringing upon our patents.. Despite these measures, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use the intellectual property of our various brands and businesses without authorization.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our various brands and limitations on our ability to control marketing online using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The occurrence of any of these events (particularly those involving our Angie's List and HomeAdvisor brands), could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will face several risks in connection with our international operations.. We operate businesses in Canada, France, Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Italy under various regional brands.  We intend to seek to establish market leadership for these brands through significant investments in marketing, sales forces and product innovation, which may not be successful or cost-effective.  We also intend to seek to expand into additional European and select other jurisdictions in the future, both through acquisitions and organic growth.. Acquiring, operating and building brands and businesses abroad, particularly in jurisdictions where we have limited experience, will involve several additional risks, including:. • operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences;. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. 16. • differing levels of social and technological acceptance of online services (or lack of acceptance of them) generally, as well as home services offerings specifically;. • foreign currency fluctuations;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds among countries and back to the United States and costs associated with repatriating funds to the United States;. • differing and potentially adverse tax laws;. • multiple, conflicting and changing laws, rules and regulations (particularly in the case of privacy and data security) and difficulties understanding and ensuring compliance with such laws, rules and regulations by employees and business partners over whom we will have no control;. • competitive environments that favor local businesses;. • limitations on the level of intellectual property protection; and. • trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war and epidemics or the threat of any of these events.. The occurrence of any or all of the events described above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions.. Our HomeAdvisor business has made numerous acquisitions in the past and we expect to seek potential acquisition candidates to expand our business generally in the future.  We may experience operational and financial challenges in connection with historical and future acquisitions if we are unable to:. • properly value prospective acquisitions, especially those with limited operating histories;. • successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems;. • successfully identify and realize potential synergies among acquired and existing business;. • retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and. • successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our management, operations and financial resources.. Furthermore, we may not be successful in addressing other challenges that we may encounter in connection with acquisitions. The anticipated benefits of one or more historical and/or future acquisitions may not be realized or the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges.  The occurrence of any these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our key personnel.. Our future success depends upon our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success.  Competition for well-qualified employees is intense and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees.  While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, no assurances can be provided that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future.  Effective succession planning is also important to our future success.  If we fail to ensure the effective transfer of senior management knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management across our various businesses, our ability to execute short- and long-term strategic, financial and operating goals, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations generally, could be adversely affected.. 17. We will continue to incur some increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a relatively new public company.. The obligations of being a relatively new public company will continue to require new expenditures, place new demands on our senior management and require the hiring of additional personnel.  While IAC continues to provide us with certain corporate and shared services related to corporate functions for negotiated fees, we also expect that we will need to continue to implement additional systems and hire additional personnel, primarily related to public reporting obligations, to adequately function as a mature public company.  We cannot precisely predict the amount and timing of these significant expenditures.  See \"-Risks Related to Our Ongoing Relationship with IAC-The services that IAC provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, which may result in increased costs and otherwise adversely affect our business.\". We may be subject to litigation, and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may from time to time become subject to litigation and various legal proceedings, including litigation and proceedings related to intellectual property matters, privacy and consumer protection laws, as well as stockholder derivative suits, class action lawsuits and other matters, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business and/or operations.  The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive.  We will evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses.  Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as and when required or appropriate.  These assessments and estimates will be based on information available to our management at the time of such assessment or estimation and will involve a significant amount of judgment.  As a result, actual outcomes or losses could differ materially from initial assessments and estimates.  Our failure to successfully defend or settle any litigation claim or other legal proceeding could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by its insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Relationship with IAC. IAC controls our company and will have the ability to control the direction of our business.. As of February 2, 2018, IAC owned all of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 86.8% of our total outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 98.5% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. For so long as IAC owns shares of our capital stock that represent a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, it will be able to control any corporate action that requires a stockholder vote, regardless of the vote of any other stockholder (subject to certain limited exceptions for certain class votes). As a result, IAC has (and we expect will continue to have) the ability to control significant corporate activities, including:. • the election of our board of directors (subject to certain provisions of the investor rights agreement between us and IAC) and, through our board of directors, decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers;. • acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, mergers or other business combinations;. • issuances of shares of our Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock and our capital structure generally;. • corporate opportunities that may be suitable for us and IAC, subject to the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (as described below);. • stock repurchases;. • our financing activities, including the issuance of debt securities and/or the incurrence of other indebtedness generally;. • the payment of dividends; and. • the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans.. 18. This voting control will limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that stockholders other than IAC do not view as beneficial. This voting control may also discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which holders of shares of our Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares.. Even if IAC owns shares of our capital stock representing less than a majority of the total combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, so long as IAC owns shares representing a significant percentage of our total combined voting power, IAC will have the ability to substantially influence these significant corporate activities.. In addition, pursuant to the investor rights agreement between us and IAC, IAC has the right to maintain its level of ownership in us to the extent we issue additional shares of our capital stock in the future and, pursuant to the employee matters agreement between us and IAC, IAC may receive payment for certain compensation expenses through the receipt of additional shares of our capital stock. For a more complete summary of our various agreements with IAC, see \"Note 14-Related Party Transactions with IAC\" to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in \"Item 8-Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Until such time as IAC no longer controls or has the ability to substantially influence us, we will continue to face the risks described in this \"Risk Factors\" section relating to IAC's control of us and the potential conflicts of interest between us and IAC.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation has a \"corporate opportunity\" provision that requires us to renounce any interests or expectancy in corporate opportunities for both us and IAC. This provision also includes a disclaimer that states that we recognize that: (i) any of our directors or officers who are also officers, directors, employees or other affiliates of IAC or its affiliates (except that we and our subsidiaries are not considered affiliates of IAC or its affiliates for purposes of this provision) and (ii) IAC itself, will have no duty to offer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to us. Generally, neither IAC nor any of our officers or directors who are also officers or directors of IAC or its affiliates will be liable to us or any of our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such person pursues or acquires any corporate opportunity for the account of IAC or any of its affiliates, directs or transfers such corporate opportunity to IAC or any of its affiliates or does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us. This corporate opportunity provision may exacerbate conflicts of interest between us and IAC because the provision effectively permits any of our directors or officers who also serves as a director or officer of IAC to choose to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of us.. IAC's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. Conflicts of interest between us and IAC could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our other stockholders.. Various conflicts of interest between us and IAC could arise. As of the date of this report, four of our ten directors are current directors or executive officers of IAC. Ownership interests of these individuals and IAC in our capital stock and ownership interests of our directors and officers in IAC capital stock, or service by an individual as either a director and/or officer of both companies, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when such individuals are faced with decisions relating to us. These decisions could include:. • corporate opportunities;. • the impact that operating or capital decisions (including the incurrence of indebtedness) relating to our business may have on IAC's consolidated financial statements and/or current or future indebtedness (including related covenants);. • business combinations involving us;. • our dividend and stock repurchase policies;. • management stock ownership; and. • the intercompany agreements and services between us and IAC.. 19. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we decide to enter into new commercial arrangements with IAC in the future or in connection with IAC's desire to enter into new commercial arrangements with third parties. Additionally, IAC may be constrained by the terms of agreements relating to its indebtedness from taking actions, or permitting us to take actions, that may be in our best interest.. Furthermore, disputes may arise between us and IAC relating to our past and ongoing relationships, and these potential conflicts of interest may make it more difficult for us to favorably resolve such disputes, including those related to:. • tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from the Combination;. • the nature, quality and pricing of services IAC agrees to provide to us;. • sales or other disposals by IAC of all or a portion of its ownership interest in us; and. • business combinations involving us.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. While we are controlled by IAC, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to our various agreements with IAC (if required) on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party.. We rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that would otherwise provide protection to our stockholders.. Because IAC owns more than 50% of the combined voting power of our capital stock, we are a \"controlled company\" under the Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC (the \"Marketplace Rules\").  As a \"controlled company,\" we are exempt from compliance with certain Marketplace Rules related to corporate governance, including the following requirements:. • that a majority of our board of directors consists of \"independent directors\" (as defined in the Marketplace Rules); and. • that we have a nominating/governance committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. Accordingly, for so long as we are a \"controlled company\" and avail ourselves of these exemptions, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Marketplace Rules.. In order to preserve IAC's ability to distribute the shares of our capital stock it holds on a tax-free basis to its stockholders, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital, acquire other businesses or provide equity incentives to our employees, which could hurt our ability to grow.. Under current laws, IAC must retain beneficial ownership of at least 80% of our combined voting power and 80% of each class of our non-voting capital stock (if any is outstanding) in order to effect a tax-free distribution of our shares held by IAC to its stockholders. IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a tax-free distribution. However, IAC does currently intend to use its majority voting interest to retain its ability to engage in such a transaction. This intention may cause IAC not to support transactions that we wish to pursue that involve issuing shares of our capital stock, including for capital-raising purposes, as consideration for an acquisition or as equity incentives to our employees. Our inability to pursue such transactions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our agreements with IAC will require us to indemnify IAC for certain tax liabilities and may limit our ability to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions, including following any distribution by IAC of our capital stock to its stockholders.. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with IAC, we generally will be responsible and will be required to indemnify IAC for: (i) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries to the extent attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries (excluding certain taxes attributable to Angie's List and its subsidiaries for taxable periods (or portions thereof) ending on or before the completion of. 20. the Combination), as determined under the tax sharing agreement, and (ii) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined, unitary or separate tax returns of ours or any of our subsidiaries. To the extent IAC fails to pay taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or one of its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries, the relevant taxing authority could seek to collect such taxes (including taxes for which IAC is responsible under the tax sharing agreement) from us or our subsidiaries.. IAC does not have a present plan or intention to undertake a tax-free spin-off of its interest in us. Under the tax sharing agreement, we generally will be responsible for any taxes and related amounts imposed on IAC or us (or our respective subsidiaries) that arise from the failure of a future spin-off of IAC's retained interest in us to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 368(a)(1)(D) and/or Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), to the extent that the failure to so qualify is attributable to: (i) a breach of the relevant representations and covenants made by us in the tax sharing agreement (or any representation letter provided in support of any tax opinion or ruling obtained by IAC with respect to the U.S. federal income tax treatment of such spin-off), (ii) an acquisition of our equity securities or assets or (iii) any other action or inaction by us after any such spin-off.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of any potential future spin-off by IAC of its interest in us, the tax sharing agreement restricts us and our subsidiaries, for the two-year period following any such spin-off (except in specific circumstances), from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which shares of our capital stock would be acquired above a certain threshold, (ii) merging, consolidating or liquidating, (iii) selling or transferring assets above certain thresholds, (iv) redeeming or repurchasing stock (with certain exceptions), (v) altering the voting rights of our capital stock, (vi)  actions and inactions that are inconsistent with representations or covenants in any tax opinion or private letter ruling document or (vii) ceasing to engage in any active trade or business as defined in the Code. The indemnity obligations and other limitations under the tax sharing agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future sales or distributions of shares of our capital stock by IAC could depress the price of our Class A common stock.. IAC has the right to sell or distribute to its stockholders all or a portion of the shares of our capital stock that it holds.  Although as of the date of this report IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a sale or distribution, sales by IAC in the public market or distributions to its stockholders of substantial amounts of our capital stock (shares of Class B common stock or Class A common stock), or the filing by us of a registration statement relating to a sale or other disposition by IAC of a substantial amount of our capital stock, could depress the price of our Class A common stock.. In addition, IAC has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of the shares of our capital stock it holds or to include such shares in other registration statements that we may file. If IAC exercises these registration rights and sells all or a portion of the shares of our capital stock it holds, the price of our Class A common stock could decline.. The services that IAC provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, which may result in increased costs and otherwise adversely affect our business.. We expect IAC to continue to provide us with significant corporate and shared services related to corporate functions, such as executive oversight, risk management, information technology, accounting, audit, legal, investor relations, tax, treasury and other services in exchange for the fees specified in the services agreement between us and IAC. IAC is not obligated to provide these services in a manner that differs from the nature of the services provided to the HomeAdvisor business during the twelve-month period prior to the Combination, and thus we may not be able to modify these services in a manner desirable to us as a standalone public company. Further, if we no longer receive these services from IAC due to the termination of the services agreement or otherwise, we may not be able to perform these services ourselves and/or find appropriate third party arrangements at a reasonable cost (and any such costs may be higher than those charged by IAC).. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt of $275 million outstanding under our term loan agreement. This indebtedness is guaranteed by our wholly-owned material domestic subsidiaries and secured by substantially all of our assets and those of our guarantors, subject to certain exceptions. Our term loan agreement contains several covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. 21. • create liens on certain assets;. • incur additional debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • sell certain assets;. • pay dividends on (or make distributions in respect of) our capital stock or make restricted payments or stock repurchases;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • place restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries.. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict corporate activities.  Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the term loan agreement.  Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under our term loan agreement could foreclose on our assets pledged to such lenders to secure our obligations under our term loan agreement and force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.  In addition, a default under our term loan agreement could trigger a cross default under other agreements, including any agreements governing future indebtedness of ours of certain of our subsidiaries. Our operating results may not be sufficient to meet our debt service obligations or to fund other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements.. In addition to the restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business, the terms of our indebtedness could:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes;. • limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service this indebtedness;. • limit our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or exploiting business opportunities; and. • limit our ability to react to changing market conditions in the home and local services industries.. Lastly, we and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including unsecured and additional secured indebtedness.  While our term loan agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to several qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant.  If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to service our debt service obligations, which may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy the debt service obligations under our term loan agreement will depend upon, among other things:. • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by then prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. • our future ability to secure additional financing or otherwise raise capital in the future and/or restructure or refinance our debt, which will largely depend on market and other factors beyond our control, as well as whether we are in compliance with the covenants in our term loan agreement (and/or any other then existing agreement governing our indebtedness).. 22. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to secure additional financing or otherwise raise capital and/or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, in an amount and/or manner sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional financing or otherwise raise capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell assets.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our debt service obligations.  Our ability to secure additional financing or otherwise raise capital and/or restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  And new indebtedness debt or refinancing of existing indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.  In addition, the terms of agreements governing existing or future indebtedness may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives.. In the absence of these resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations or sell equity in order to meet our debt service obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all, and our term loan agreement may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to avail ourselves of some or all of these options.  Furthermore, any proceeds realized from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations.. Variable rate indebtedness under our term loan agreement will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. We currently have $275 million of indebtedness outstanding under our term loan, which bears interest at variable rates. Indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates exposes us to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2017, our term loan bore interest at LIBOR plus 2.00%, which was 3.38% at December 31, 2017. If LIBOR were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, then the annual interest expense on the outstanding indebtedness under our term loan would increase or decrease by $2.8 million. See also \"Item 7A-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock. The multiclass structure of our capital stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with IAC, the holder of all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, and limiting the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to influence corporate matters.. Each share of our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and each share of our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of February 2, 2018, IAC held shares of Class B common stock representing economic and voting interests in us of approximately 86.8% and 98.5%, respectively.. Due to the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B common stock and Class A common stock, IAC, as the holder of all of our shares of outstanding Class B common stock, will continue to control a substantial majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock. Similarly, any holder(s) of shares of our Class B common stock in the future may continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock, even if and when such shares represent a small minority of our total outstanding capital stock. This concentrated control will significantly limit the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to influence corporate matters.. The difference in the voting rights of our Class B common stock and Class A common stock may harm the value and liquidity of our Class A common stock.. Holders of our Class B common stock and Class A common stock are entitled to ten votes and one vote per share, respectively. This difference in voting rights could harm the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our Class A common stock ascribes value to the right of the holders of our Class B common stock to ten votes per share. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights could result in less liquidity for our Class A common stock than if there were only one class of common stock.. 23. The price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. During 2017, our Class A common stock traded as high as $13.74 and as low as $10.24 and on March 13, 2018, the closing price of our Class A common stock was $15.17. The price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock include the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks generally, or those in our industry;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry;. • volatility in the price of our Class A common stock due to the limited number of shares of our Class A common stock held by the public;. • sales of shares of our capital stock by us and/or our directors, executive officers, employees and stockholders;. • the failure of analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by analysts who cover us and/or our failure to meet analyst estimates or investor expectations;. • financial projections that we may provide to the public, any changes to such projections or our failure to meet such projections;. • announcements of new brands, products or services by us or our competitors;. • public reaction to our earnings releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results;. • actual or anticipated developments in our business (or those of our competitors) or the competitive landscape generally;. • litigation involving us, our industry or both, or regulatory investigations involving our operations or those of our competitors;. • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. • announced or completed acquisitions by us or our competitors;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of (or changes to) existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. • any significant change in our management; and. • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth in any of our significant markets.. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Securities litigation against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. 24. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock and Class B common stock, and we currently anticipate that our future earnings will be retained to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including:. • our historic and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations;. • our capital levels and needs;. • tax considerations;. • any acquisitions that we may consider;. • statutory and regulatory prohibitions and other limitations;. • the terms of any credit agreement or other borrowing arrangements that restrict our ability to pay cash dividends, including our term loan agreement;. • general economic conditions; and. • other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales on their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. The DGCL and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and/or changes in our management, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.. The DGCL and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous, including provisions which:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt;. • limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • provide that certain litigation against our company can only be brought in Delaware; and. • provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws.. Any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a related premium for their Class A common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our Class A common stock.. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that a state or federal court within Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for certain disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit the ability of our stockholders to obtain the judicial forum of their choice for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and rested bylaws provide that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for all of the following actions: (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim for or based on breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers or other employees to us or to our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors, officers or other employees pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law (the. 25. \"DGCL\"), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, (iv) any action asserting a claim relating to or involving us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine or (v) any action asserting an \"internal corporate claim\" (as defined under the DGCL).. The choice of forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits.  Alternatively, if a court were to find our choice of forum provision to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Given the multiclass structure of our capital stock, our Class A common stock is currently ineligible for inclusion in certain stock market indices, including the S&P Composite 1500 (and its three component indices) and all indices managed by FTSE Russell.  Exclusion from these (and potentially other) stock market indices could reduce the liquidity of and demand for our Class A common stock, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock.. Policies adopted by certain operators of U.S. stock market indices exclude equity securities of companies with multiple classes of outstanding publicly traded equity securities and/or companies with outstanding classes of publicly traded equity securities that have no voting rights (or \"low\" voting rights, relative to another outstanding class of equity securities) from their stock indices. For example, the S&P Dow Jones Indices exclude companies with multiple share class structures from being added to the S&P Composite 1500 (and its three component indices) and FTSE Russell, which manages multiple stock market indices (including many in the United States), excludes from the indices it manages any company with 5% or less of its voting rights (aggregated across all of its equity securities, including those that are not listed or trading) held by \"unrestricted (free-float) shareholders\" (as defined by FTSE Russell).  Similar policies may be announced or implemented in the future by other operators of stock market indices.  Given the multiclass structure of our capital stock and IAC's control over us, our Class A common stock is not currently eligible for inclusion in the S&P Composite 1500 (and its three component indices) and any indices managed by FTSE Russell.  Exclusion from these stock market indices (and any others in the future) could reduce the liquidity of and demand for our Class A common stock, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock."
