[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are significant factors known to us that could materially harm our business, financial position, or operating results or could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statement made in this report. The risks described are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial position, and operating results could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment.. Risks Related to our Industry. Two of our products, which together comprised 15% of our total revenue in 2017, are marketed without approved New Drug Applications (“NDAs”) or Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDAs”) and we can offer no assurances that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) will not require us to either seek approval for these products or withdraw them from the market. In either case, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Two of our products, Esterified Estrogen with Methyltestosterone (“EEMT”) and Opium Tincture, are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenues for EEMT were 13%, 23%, and 51% of total revenue, respectively, and revenues from Opium Tincture were 2%, 4%, and 7% of total revenue, respectively.. The FDA's policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products appears in the FDA's September 2011 Compliance Policy Guide Sec. 440.100 titled \"Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs.\" Under this policy, the FDA has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against marketing of unapproved products. The FDA evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those with potential safety risks or that lack evidence of effectiveness. While we believe that, so long as we comply with applicable manufacturing standards, the FDA will not take action against us under the current enforcement policy, we can offer no assurances that the FDA will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual product or group of products.. In addition, we manufacture a group of products on behalf of a contract manufacturing customer and receive royalties on the customer’s sales of products, which are marketed by that customer without an FDA-approved NDA or ANDA. If the FDA took enforcement action against such customer, the customer may be required to seek FDA approval for the group of products or withdraw them from the market, which could materially adversely affect our contract manufacturing and royalty revenues. Our contract manufacturing revenues from this group of unapproved products for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 were 1.1%, 1.2%, and 2.1% of total revenues, respectively. Our royalties on the net sales of these unapproved products for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 were less than 1% of total revenues.. Imported active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”) are subject to inspection by the FDA and the FDA can refuse to permit the importation of API for use in products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. We are entirely dependent on imported API to make EEMT. If the FDA detained or refused to allow the importation of such API, our revenues from EEMT would be reduced or eliminated and our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We source some of the API for our products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, from international suppliers. From time to time, due to FDA inspections, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of imported API, including for EEMT. Any prolonged disruption in the supply of imported API could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products, such as EEMT, reduce or eliminate our revenues from EEMT, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, as regulatory fees and compliance oversight of API manufacturers increase, this could result in certain companies discontinuing their supply of API to ANI, which would materially affect ANI’s ability to manufacture its products.. 14. The FDA does not provide guidance on safety labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT and Opium Tincture.. Pharmaceutical product labels contain important safety information including Black Box warnings, contraindications, dosing and administration, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific populations such as pregnant women, pediatric, and geriatric patients, and other warnings and precautions. Pharmaceutical manufacturers may change product labels when post-approval drug safety surveillance programs identify previously unknown side-effects, drug interactions, and other risks. Manufacturers may also change product labels after conducting post-approval clinical studies and may receive or seek guidance from the FDA regarding updating safety labeling information. However, the FDA does not provide guidance on labeling for products that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. As a result, we are dependent on our internal post-approval drug safety surveillance program to identify necessary safety-related changes to the labels for EEMT and Opium Tincture, which could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims for these products. Such claims, even if successfully defended, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results.. The continuing trend toward consolidation of customer groups could result in declines in the sales volume and prices of our products, and increased fees charged by customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Consolidation and the formation of strategic partnerships among and between wholesale distributors, chain drug stores, and group purchasing organizations has resulted in a smaller number of companies, each controlling a larger share of pharmaceutical distribution channels. For example, our net revenues are concentrated among three customers representing 29%, 29%, and 20% of net revenues, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, accounts receivable from these three customers was approximately 85% of accounts receivable, net. Drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains, which represent an essential part of the distribution chain for generic pharmaceutical products, have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in declines in our sales volumes if a customer is consolidated into another company that purchases products from a competitor. In addition, the consolidation of drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains could result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business and enabling those groups to charge us increased fees. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. The result of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any determination that we have failed to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes. Any determination by governmental agencies that we have failed to comply with our reporting and payment obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 15. We are entirely dependent on periodic approval by the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) for the supply of the API needed to make our Opium Tincture, Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (5 mg/5 mL),  Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (100 mg/5 mL), and Oxycodone capsule products. An inability to obtain such approvals would reduce or eliminate our revenues from Opium Tincture, Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (5 mg/5 mL),  Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (100 mg/5 mL), and Oxycodone capsules, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, we are subject to strict regulation by the DEA and are subject to sanctions if we are unable to comply with related regulatory requirements.. The DEA regulates products containing controlled substances, such as opiates, pursuant to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act (“CSA”). The CSA and DEA regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security, and distribution. Recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored, and distributed. Companies handling controlled substances also are required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties.. In addition, each year, we must submit a request to the DEA for a quota to purchase the amount of API needed to manufacture Opium Tincture, Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (5 mg/5 mL), Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (100 mg/5 mL), and Oxycodone capsules. Without approved quotas from the DEA, we would not be able to purchase these ingredients from our suppliers. As a result, we are entirely dependent upon the DEA to approve, on an annual basis, a quota of API that is sufficiently large to support our plans for the continued manufacture of Opium Tincture, Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (5 mg/5 mL), Oxycodone Hydrochloride oral solution (100 mg/5 mL), and Oxycodone capsules at commercial levels. In 2017, the DEA announced that the agency would decrease the total quotas approved for Schedule II opioid painkillers. If the DEA does not approve our requested quotas, we may be unable to obtain sufficient API to manufacture these products at levels required by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Pharmaceutical product quality standards are steadily increasing and all products, including those already approved, may need to meet current standards. If our products are not able to meet these standards, we may be required to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market.. Steadily increasing quality standards are applicable to pharmaceutical products still under development and those already approved and on the market. These standards result from product quality initiatives implemented by the FDA, such as criteria for residual solvents, and updated U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention (“USP”) Reference Standards. The USP is a scientific nonprofit organization that sets standards for the identity, strength, quality, and purity of medicines, food ingredients, and dietary supplements manufactured, distributed, and consumed worldwide. Pharmaceutical products approved prior to the implementation of new quality standards, including those produced by us, may not meet these standards, which could require us to discontinue marketing and/or recall such products from the market, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. We may become subject to federal and state false claims litigation brought by private individuals and the government.. We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The Federal False Claims Act (“FFCA”), also known as Qui Tam, imposes civil liability and criminal fines on individuals or entities that knowingly submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the FFCA and other similar laws may result in criminal fines, imprisonment, and civil penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from federally funded health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The FFCA also allows private individuals to bring a suit on behalf of the government against an individual or entity for violations of the FFCA. These suits, also known as Qui Tam actions, may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been previously disclosed. These suits have increased significantly in recent years because the FFCA allows an individual to share in any amounts paid to the federal government from a successful Qui Tam action. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs, and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Actions brought against ANI for violations of these laws, even if successfully defended, could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 16. We face significant uncertainty with respect to the litigation brought against us and other manufacturers of metoclopramide and cannot provide assurances that the outcome of the matter will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, we may be exposed to other product liability claims in the future.. All manufacturers of the drug Reglan and its generic equivalent metoclopramide, including ANI, have faced allegations from plaintiffs in various states, including California, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, claiming bodily injuries as a result of ingestion of metoclopramide or its brand name, Reglan, prior to the FDA's February 2009 Black Box warning requirement. In August 2012, we were dismissed with prejudice from all New Jersey complaints. In August 2016, we settled the outstanding California short form complaints and in February 2018, we settled the remaining four complaints that were not captured in the 2016 settlement. We consider our exposure to this litigation to be limited due to several factors: (1) the only generic metoclopramide that we manufactured prior to the implementation of the FDA's warning requirement was an oral solution introduced after May 28, 2008; (2) our market share for the oral solution was a very small portion of the overall metoclopramide market; and (3) once we received a request for change of labeling from the FDA, we submitted our proposed changes within 30 days, and such changes were subsequently approved by the FDA.. At the present time, we are unable to assess the likely outcome of the complaints in the remaining states. Our insurance company has assumed the defense of this matter and paid all losses in settlement of the California complaints. We cannot provide assurances that the outcome of these matters will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Furthermore, like all pharmaceutical manufacturers, we may be exposed to other product liability claims in the future, which could limit our coverage under future insurance policies or cause those policies to become more expensive, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. A proposed FDA rule allowing generic companies to distribute revised labels that differ from the corresponding reference listed drug (“RLD”) could have an adverse effect on our operations because of a potential increase in litigation exposure.. On November 13, 2013, the FDA issued a proposed rule (Docket No. FDA-2013-N-0500) titled \"Supplemental Applications Proposing Labeling Changes for Approved Drugs and Biological Products.\" Pursuant to the rule, the FDA will change existing regulations to allow generic drug application holders, in advance of the FDA’s review, to distribute revised labeling, to reflect safety-related changes based on newly acquired information. Currently, the labels of generic drugs must conform to those of the corresponding RLD and any failure-to-warn claims against generic companies are preempted under U.S. federal law. Once this rule is released, we could be found liable under such failure-to-warn claims if we do not revise our labeling to reflect safety-related changes promptly upon receipt of applicable safety information. While we proactively conduct surveillance for reported safety issues with our products, we cannot guarantee that this will prevent us from being found liable under a failure-to-warn claim. When this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it could increase our potential liability with respect to failure-to-warn claims, which, even if successfully defended, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us.. Product liability insurance for the healthcare industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. We may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, nor can we be sure that claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, the existing coverage of our insurance policy or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have may not be sufficient to offset existing or future claims. A successful claim against us, in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 17. The use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by competitors, both branded and generic, including \"authorized generics,\" citizen's petitions, and legislative proposals, may increase the costs to develop and market our generic products, could delay or prevent new product introductions, and could reduce significantly our profit potential. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue legal, regulatory, and/or legislative strategies to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to branded products. These strategies include, but are not limited to:. ·entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time generic competition initially enters the market;. ·launching a generic version of their own branded product at the same time generic competition initially enters the market;. ·filing citizen petitions with the FDA or other regulatory bodies, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of generic product approvals;. ·seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or meet other approval requirements;. ·initiating legislative and regulatory efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of branded pharmaceuticals;. ·filing suits for patent infringement that may delay regulatory approval of generic products;. ·introducing \"next-generation\" products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the first generic product;. ·obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of branded drugs in pediatric populations or by other potential methods;. ·persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of branded name drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the branded company to obtain new patented products serving as substitutes for the products withdrawn; and. ·seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire.. If we cannot compete with such strategies, our business, financial position, and operating results could be adversely impacted.. If third-party payers deny coverage, substitute another company’s product for our product, or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated.. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage, choose to provide coverage for a competitor’s bioequivalent product rather than our product, or offer limited reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary, or inappropriate. Prices also could be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or limit reimbursement, we may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated.. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant additional costs.. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various federal authorities, including the FDA, the DEA, and state governmental authorities. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of our products. Noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements can have a broad range of consequences, including warning letters, fines, seizure of products, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and distribution, refusal to approve NDAs or other applications or revocation of approvals previously granted, withdrawal of product from marketing, injunctions, withdrawal of licenses or registrations necessary to conduct business, disqualification from supply contracts with the government, civil penalties, debarment, and criminal prosecution.. 18. All U.S. facilities where prescription drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed must comply with FDA current good manufacturing practices (“cGMPs”). All of our products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all applicable regulations. If it finds violations of cGMP, the FDA could make its concerns public and could impose sanctions including, among others, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA's review of product applications, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. If imposed, enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs in place that we believe are adequate, the FDA may conclude that these programs do not meet regulatory standards. If compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The U.S. government has enacted the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act (\"DSCSA\") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. All prescription pharmaceutical products distributed in the U.S. must be serialized with unique product identifiers by November 27, 2017. On June 30, 2017, the FDA issued draft guidance that indicated that they are delaying enforcement of those requirements until November 27, 2018 to provide manufacturers additional time and avoid supply disruptions. The final requirement for tracking the products will commence on November 27, 2023. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Company's operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. In addition, if we are unable to comply with DSCSA as of the required dates, we could face penalties or be unable to sell our products.. Our research, product development, and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs in complying with numerous laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by the FDA, the DEA, and other regulatory statutes including the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”), the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of our products, materials used to develop and manufacture such products, and resulting waste products. For example, some of our products, including EEMT, must be manufactured in a fully contained environment due to their potency and/or toxicity, and compliance with related OSHA requirements is costly.. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts, from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We may also incur significant costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations in the future. We are also subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to, federal, state, and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination, and whistle-blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results.. 19. Uncertainties associated with the impact of published studies regarding the adverse health effects of certain forms of hormone therapy could affect adversely the market for our hormone products.. The market for hormone therapy products has been affected negatively by the Women's Health Initiative (“WHI”) study and other studies that have found that the overall health risks from the use of certain hormone therapy products may exceed the benefits from the use of those products among postmenopausal women. In July 2002, the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) released data from its WHI study on the risks and benefits associated with long-term use of oral hormone therapy by women. The NIH announced that it was discontinuing the arm of the study investigating the use of oral estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy products after an average follow-up period of 5.2 years because the product used in the study was shown to cause an increase in the risk of invasive breast cancer. The study also found an increased risk of stroke, heart attacks, and blood clots and concluded that overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin among postmenopausal women. Also, in July 2002, results of an observational study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute on the effects of estrogen therapy were announced. The main finding of the study was that postmenopausal women who used estrogen therapy for 10 or more years had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer than women who never used hormone therapy. In October 2002, a significant hormone therapy study being conducted in the United Kingdom also was halted. In March 2004, the NIH announced that the estrogen-alone study was discontinued after nearly seven years because the NIH concluded that estrogen alone does not affect (either increase or decrease) heart disease, the major question being evaluated in the study. The findings indicated a slightly increased risk of stroke as well as a decreased risk of hip fracture and breast cancer. Preliminary data from the memory portion of the WHI study suggested that estrogen alone may possibly be associated with a slight increase in the risk of dementia or mild cognitive impairment.. Researchers continue to analyze data from both arms of the WHI study and other studies. Some reports indicate that the safety of estrogen products may be affected by the age of the woman at initiation of therapy. The markets for female hormone therapies for menopausal symptoms declined as a result of these published studies. The release of any follow-up or other studies that show adverse effects from hormone therapy, including in particular, hormone therapies similar to our products, also could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. Continuing studies of our products could produce negative results, which could require us to implement risk management programs, or discontinue product marketing. In addition, ongoing post-approval drug safety surveillance of our products could result in the submission of adverse event reports to the FDA.. Studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others on a continuous basis. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of current and previously marketed products, including those that we produce. In addition, we are required by the FDA to submit reports of adverse events involving the use of our products. In some cases, studies and safety surveillance programs have resulted, and in the future may result, in the one or more of the following:. ·product label changes including FDA-mandated Black Box warnings;. ·risk management programs such as patient registries;. ·reduced product sales due to concerns among patients and physicians; and. ·discontinuance of product marketing.. These situations, should they occur with respect to any of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Companies with greater resources than us could lobby Congress and other regulators for additional regulations that would benefit their businesses and negatively affect us.. We are at the early stages of growth and currently do not engage in lobbying activities. In the U.S., some companies have lobbied Congress for amendments to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (the “Hatch-Waxman Act”) that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. For example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an NDA is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by the full amount of time spent in clinical trials rather than by only one half of the time that is currently permitted.. 20. If proposals like these were to become effective, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of, and reimbursement for healthcare services in the U.S., and it is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on health care reform in the future. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, “the ACA”), were signed into law in March 2010. While the ACA may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products and may otherwise increase drug coverage, it also includes provisions such as, among others, the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee, the requirement that manufacturers provide discounts to Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by Medicaid programs.. The cost-containment measures that government programs and healthcare insurers are instituting both as a result of general cost pressure in the industry and healthcare reforms contained in the ACA may prevent us from maintaining prices for our products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our products are marketed outside of the U.S., foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise harm our business, financial position, and operating results.. Risks Related to our Business. Our anticipated revenue growth and profitability, if achieved, is dependent upon our ability to develop, license or acquire, and commercialize new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors' product introductions, and to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products. Our failure to do so successfully could impair our growth strategy and plans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our future revenues and profitability are dependent upon our ability to successfully develop, license or acquire, and commercialize pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. Product development is inherently risky and time-consuming. Likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to the supply of product meeting specifications and terms such as license scope or termination rights. The development and commercialization process also requires substantial time, effort, and financial resources. We may not be successful in commercializing products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. The FDA must approve any new prescription product before it can be marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and largely unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis for branded or generic products that we may develop, license, or acquire. Moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, we may be limited with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, which in turn could restrict the potential market for the drug. Also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory. In the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of any such inventory becoming obsolete. The timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results.. 21. The approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the FDA granting simultaneous final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. This often forces a generic firm to face immediate competition when it introduces a generic product into the market. Additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. As a result, we could be unable to grow or maintain market share with respect to our generic pharmaceutical products, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market that product profitably and on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Furthermore, if we are unable to address all regulatory requirements applicable to the development and commercialization of new products in a timely manner, our product introduction plans, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The FDA regulates and monitors all promotion and advertising of prescription drugs after approval. All promotion must be consistent with the conditions of approval and submitted to the agency. Failure to adhere to FDA promotional requirements can result in enforcement letters, warning letters, changes to existing promotional material, and corrective notices to healthcare professionals. Promotion of a prescription drug for uses not approved by the FDA can have serious consequences and result in lawsuits by private parties, state governments and the federal government, significant civil and criminal penalties, and compliance agreements that require a company to change current practices and prevent unlawful activity in the future.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for API. Generally, only a single source of API is qualified for use in each product due to the costs and time required to validate a second source of supply. Changes in API suppliers must usually be approved through a Prior Approval Supplement (“PAS”) by the FDA.. Our ability to manufacture and distribute products is dependent, in part, upon ingredients and components supplied by others, including entities based outside the U.S. We purchased approximately 23% of our inventory from two suppliers during the year ended December 31, 2017. We purchased approximately 25% of our inventory from one supplier during the year ended December 31, 2016 and approximately 33% of our inventory from two suppliers during the year ended December 31, 2015. Any disruption in the supply of these ingredients or components or any problems in their quality could materially affect our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and could result in legal liabilities that could materially affect our ability to realize profits or otherwise harm our business, financial, and operating results. Virtually all of our contracts for the supply of pharmaceutical products to customers contain \"failure to supply\" clauses. Therefore, our ability to source sufficient quantities of API for manufacturing is critical. We source the raw materials for our products from both domestic and international suppliers, which we carefully select. Generally, we qualify only a single source of API for use in each product due to the cost and time required to validate and qualify a second source of supply. Any change in one of our API suppliers must usually be approved through a PAS by the FDA. The process of obtaining an approval of such a PAS can require between four and 18 months. While we also generally qualify a single source for non-API raw materials, the process required to qualify an alternative source of a non-API raw material is typically much less rigorous. If we were to change the supplier of a raw material for a product, the cost for the material could be greater than the amount we paid with the previous supplier. Changes in suppliers are rare, but could occur as a result of a supplier’s business failing, an issue arising from an FDA inspection, or failure to maintain our required standards of quality. As a result, we select suppliers with great care, based on various factors including quality, reliability of supply, and long-term financial stability. Certain of the APIs for our drug products, including those that are marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs, such as EEMT, are sourced from international suppliers. From time to time, we have experienced temporary disruptions in the supply of certain of such imported API due to FDA inspections.. 22. Several of the products we have acquired cannot be manufactured in our facilities. If we are unable to secure or maintain qualified contract manufacturers for those products or if a contract manufacturer fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially, adversely affected.. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, a variety of products that we seek to commercialize. Some of these products, including injectables and softgel capsules, are products that we cannot manufacture in our facilities. As a result, we may seek partners to contract manufacture the products on our behalf. Like our company, these firms must comply with cGMPs and other federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding pharmaceutical manufacturing. Noncompliance by those firms may result in warning letters, fines, product recalls, and partial or total suspension of production and distribution. If we are unable to find qualified contract manufacturers or if a contract manufacturer fails to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, we may be unable to commercialize these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results, including an impairment of the acquired product.. Several of our products are manufactured by third parties, which we cannot control.. We rely on third parties to manufacture our Erythromycin Ethylsuccinate, Fenofibrate, Hydrocortisone rectal cream, Inderal LA, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, Nimodipine, Propranolol ER, Vancocin, and Vancomycin products. We expect our reliance on third party manufacturers to continue to increase in the future as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our collaborative arrangements, and as we seek additional growth opportunities outside of the capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to secure third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to market and distribute such products at a profit. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of Erythromycin Ethylsuccinate, Fenofibrate, Hydrocortisone rectal cream, Inderal LA, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, Nimodipine, Propranolol ER, Vancocin, Vancomycin, or future products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our branded products may become subject to increased generic competition.. Many of our branded products have not been patent-protected for several years and no longer have market exclusivity. As a result, trends moving toward increased substitution and reimbursement of generics for cost-containment purposes may reduce and limit the sales of our mature brand products. Additionally, increased focus by the FDA on approval of generic products may accelerate this trend. If generic products are substituted for these branded products, our revenue from these products will decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 23. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial position and operating results.. Our growth will depend, in part, on our continued ability to develop, commercialize, and expand our products, including in response to changing regulatory and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to accelerate our growth through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates or products can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete or successfully execute strategies for identified acquisitions. The risks faced in connection with acquisitions include:. ·diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition and/or product integration challenges;. ·coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions;. ·retention of key employees from the acquired company;. ·integration of the acquired company’s accounting information, management, human resources, and other administrative systems;. ·the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies;. ·liability for activities of the acquired company and/or products before the acquisition, including patent infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities;. ·unanticipated write-offs or charges; and. ·litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company or product, including claims from product users, former stockholders, or other third parties.. In any acquisition that we may undertake, our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses, or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased and continue to increase due to our acquisitions of and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products, such as Inderal LA, Propranolol ER, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, and Lithobid, and the estimates on which our accruals are based are subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our Medicaid rebate accruals have increased significantly due to our acquisitions of and subsequent sales of branded products and authorized generics of branded products, such as Inderal LA, Propranolol ER, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, and Lithobid. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our estimates of the amount of our product that will be prescribed to Medicaid beneficiaries. The resulting accruals are significant, and as Medicaid utilization trends change, we may need to change our estimates accordingly. We cannot guarantee that actual results will not differ from our estimates. In addition, the PPACA included a significant expansion of state Medicaid programs. As more individuals become eligible for coverage under these programs, Medicaid utilization of our products could increase, resulting in a corresponding increase in our rebate payments. Increases in Medicaid rebate payments could decrease our revenues from product sales, including Inderal LA, Propranolol ER, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, and Lithobid, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. 24. Our accruals for the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to our acquisition of Inderal LA as well as the acquisition of a distribution agreement under which we market our Fenofibrate product, and the estimates on which our accruals are based are subject to change. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our accruals for the rebates under the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount Program have increased due to our acquisition of Inderal LA and the acquisition of a distribution agreement under which we market our Fenofibrate product. We accrue for these rebates at the time of sale based on our estimates of the amount of product that will be prescribed to patients in the Medicare Coverage Gap Discount program, which is primarily for the benefit of persons aged 65 years and over. As our Fenofibrate, Inderal LA, and Propranolol ER products, all of which were launched in 2016, are often used by patients in this age range, our estimates of these rebates have grown. Increases in Medicare Coverage Gap Discount rebates could decrease our revenues from product sales, including Fenofibrate, Inderal LA, and Propranolol ER, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. We have entered into distribution agreements under which we market products under ANDAs and NDAs owned by third parties. Any changes to these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. In 2016, we entered into several distribution agreements to market and distribute products under our own label that are sold under ANDAs and NDAs owned by third parties, over which we have no control. Generally, the responsibility for maintaining the ANDAs and NDAs lies with these third parties. If any regulatory issues were to arise with the underlying ANDA or NDA for one of these products, we could be required to discontinue sales of the product, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. In January 2016, we acquired two NDAs for $75.0 million and a percentage of future net sales of products under the NDAs. We continue to invest in the NDAs and if we are unable to commercialize these products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. In January 2016, we acquired the right, title, and interest in the NDA for Cortrophin gel, 40 units/mL and 80 units/mL and the NDA for Cortrophin-Zinc, 40 units/mL, along with certain documentation and trademark applications, for $75.0 million and a percentage of future net sales of the products under the NDAs. We have and intend to continue to incur significant research and development expense with respect to development of the product. In order to commercialize the products, we have found and engaged a third party to develop the API form of the products. We have also executed a long-term commercial supply agreement with a Cortrophin gel fill/finish contract manufacturer. We have also continued to advance the manufacture of the corticotropin API by manufacturing the first, second, and third intermediate scale batches of API. However, we also need to manufacture commercial-scale batches of the corticotropin API, and eventually manufacture demo and registration batches of Cortrophin in finished goods form. We will also need to obtain approval from the FDA of a supplementary NDA filing in order to commercialize the product. In addition, we will need to market the products directly to physicians and negotiate with third-party payers to provide coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement for the products, none of which is required for our current products. If we are unable to perform any of these steps, we may be unable to commercialize the products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. If we are unable to successfully compete, such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. The generic pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from U.S. and foreign manufacturers, many of whom are significantly larger than us. Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to ours for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have:. ·greater financial resources;. ·proprietary processes or delivery systems;. ·larger research and development and marketing staffs;. ·larger production capabilities;. ·more products; or. ·more experience in developing new drugs.. 25. Any of our significant competitors, due to one or more of these and other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our approved products may not achieve commercialization at levels of market acceptance that allow us to achieve profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We seek to develop, license, or acquire products that we can commercialize at levels of market acceptance that would allow us to recoup our costs, grow market share, and achieve profitability. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products, if we fail to predict accurately demand for such products, our business, financial position, and operating results could be adversely affected. Levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to:. ·availability of alternative products from our competitors;. ·our products’ pricing relative to that of our competitors;. ·our marketing effectiveness relative to that of our competitors;. ·timing of our market entry;. ·our ability to market our products effectively to the retail level; and. ·acceptance of our products by government and private formularies.. Some of these factors are outside of our control and, if any arise, our profitability, business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We have entered into several collaborative arrangements that may not result in marketable products.. We have entered into several collaborative arrangements to develop generic products for us to market in the U.S. We can offer no assurances that these arrangements will result in additional approved products, or that we will be able to market the products at a profit. In addition, any expenses related to clinical trials, or additional studies required by the FDA, that we may incur in connection with these collaborative arrangements may negatively affect our business, financial position, and operating results. Specifically:. ·clinical trials could be more costly than we anticipate;. ·formulation development could take longer and be more costly than we expect; and. ·we may be required to obtain specialized equipment in order to manufacture products on a commercial scale.. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We expect to spend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts, and such efforts may not result in marketable products. Failure to successfully introduce products into the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We conduct research and development primarily to enable us to manufacture and market approved products in accordance with applicable regulations. Research and development is expensive and time-consuming. As we seek to develop new products, or recommercialize products that were previously approved, our research expenses will increase, potentially significantly, and we cannot be certain that we will recover our investment in a product, even if that product is commercialized. If we spend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able to introduce new products, our business, financial position, and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. 26. We own two manufacturing facilities that produce the majority of our products. Production at either or both of these facilities could be interrupted, which could cause us to fail to deliver sufficient product to customers on a timely basis and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our manufacturing operations are based in two facilities. While these facilities are sufficient for our current needs, the facilities are highly specialized and any damage to or need for replacement of all or any significant function of our facilities could be very costly and time-consuming and could impair or prohibit production and shipping. A significant disruption at either of the facilities, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, adverse quality or compliance observation, vandalism, natural disaster, storm or other environmental damage, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products on a timely basis and, among other consequences, could subject us to “failure to supply” claims from our customers, as discussed below. Although we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, we might suffer losses because of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Virtually all our contracts for the supply of products to our customers contain \"failure to supply\" clauses. Under these clauses, if we are unable to supply the requested quantity of product within a certain period after receipt of a customer's purchase order, the customer is entitled to procure a substitute product elsewhere and we must reimburse the customer for the difference between our contract price and the price the customer was forced to pay to procure the substitute product. This difference can be substantial because of the much higher spot price at which the customer must cover its requirements, and can be far in excess of the revenue that we would otherwise have received on the sale of our own product. Therefore, our ability to produce and ship a sufficient quantity of product on a consistent basis is critical. Failure to deliver products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We rely on third parties to assist with our clinical studies.  If these third parties do not perform as required or expected, or if they are not in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated, or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such studies. Further, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall already-approved commercial products.. We rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories, to assist with our clinical studies. We are responsible for confirming that our studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical studies is conducted in accordance with our general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording, and reporting the results of clinical studies, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical study participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on these third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. If the third parties assisting us with our clinical studies do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDA's good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the products being tested in such studies. For our already-approved commercial products, we may be required to audit or redo previously completed trials or recall our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 27. With the exception of a license for patent technology for Inderal XL and InnoPran XL, we do not own or license any material patents associated with our products, and our ability to protect and control unpatented trade secrets, know-how, and other technological innovation is limited.. Generally, the branded pharmaceutical business relies upon patent protection to ensure market exclusivity for the life of the patent. Except for a license for patent technology for Inderal XL and InnoPran XL, we do not own or license any material patents associated with our products and therefore do not enjoy the same level of intellectual property protection with respect to such products as would a pharmaceutical manufacturer that markets a patented product. We have limited ability to protect and control trade secrets, know-how, and other technological innovation, all of which are unpatented. Others independently may develop similar or better proprietary information and techniques and disclose them publicly. In addition, others may gain access to our trade secrets, and we may not be able to protect our rights to our unpatented trade secrets. In addition, confidentiality agreements and other measures may not provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Failure to protect and control such trade secrets, know-how and innovation could harm the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other technological innovation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Inability to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries could negatively affect sales of our branded products.. We own the trademark names for most of our branded products, including, Cortenema, Cortrophin gel, Cortrophin-Zinc, Inderal LA, Inderal XL, InnoPran XL, Lithobid, Reglan, and Vancocin. We license the trademark names for Atacand, Atacand HCT, Arimidex, and Casodex. While we will seek to protect those trademarks through timely renewal in applicable jurisdictions, we may not be able to renew our trademarks in a timely manner or to prevent third parties from using our trademarks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. We have very limited staffing and are dependent upon key employees, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations. Competition for talent is intense, especially in northern Minnesota, where the population is small. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, the growth and success of our business could be adversely affected.. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a relatively small management team and staff.  We have employment arrangements in place with our executive and other officers, but none of these executive and other officers are bound legally to remain employed with ANI for any specific term.  We do not have key person life insurance policies covering our executive and other officers or any of our other employees.  If key individuals were to leave ANI, our business could be affected adversely if suitable replacement personnel are not recruited quickly. The population in northern Minnesota, where our manufacturing resources are located, is small, and as a result, there is a limited number qualified personnel available in all functional areas, which could make it difficult to retain and attract the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. If we were unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial position, and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate the business effectively.. We rely significantly on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to effectively manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers in a timely manner. Any failure, accidents, inadequacy, or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, manufacture and ship products, and invoice customers timely depends significantly on our general ledger, our contracted electronic data interface system, and other information systems. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Cybersecurity incidents resulting in the failure of our information systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security or other unauthorized access of these systems, may affect our ability to manage and maintain inventory and financial reports, and result in delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of operations. A breach in security, unauthorized access resulting in misappropriation, theft, or sabotage with respect to proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. 28. Risks Related to Accounting, Tax, and SEC Rules and Regulations. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the future is subject to substantial limitations and we may not be able to use some identified net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, which could result in increased tax payments in future periods.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. On June 19, 2013, BioSante experienced an ownership change. Accordingly, our ability to utilize BioSante’s NOL and tax credit carryforwards attributable to periods prior to June 19, 2013 is subject to substantial limitations. These limitations, in turn, could result in increased future tax payments, which could be material.. We use a variety of estimates, judgments, and assumptions in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Estimates, judgments, and assumptions are inherently subject to change, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the period. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions, and any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. In the consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports filed with the SEC, estimates, judgments, and assumptions are used for, but not limited to, revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, accruals for chargebacks, rebates, returns and other allowances, allowance for inventory obsolescence, stock-based compensation, valuation of financial instruments and intangible assets, allowances for contingencies and litigation, deferred tax assets and liabilities, deferred tax valuation allowance, and the depreciable lives of fixed and intangible assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgments, and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Changes in estimates regarding the fair value of goodwill or intangible assets may result in an adverse impact to our business, financial position, and operating results.. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill might not be recoverable. Judgment is used in determining when these events and circumstances arise. We perform our review of goodwill based on our one reporting unit. If we determine that the carrying value of our assets may not be recoverable, we assess, using judgment and estimates, the fair value of our assets and to determine the amount of any impairment loss, if any. Changes in judgments and estimates may result in the recognition of an impairment loss, which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. While our testing in fiscal 2017 did not result in an impairment charge related to goodwill, there can be no assurances that our goodwill won’t be impaired in the future.. Our material definite-lived intangible assets consist of ANDAs for previously marketed generic products, NDAs and product rights for our branded products, marketing and distribution rights related to certain generic products, and a non-compete agreement. These assets are being amortized over their useful lives of four to 10 years. For these definite-lived intangible assets, we perform an impairment analysis when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if, based on our impairment analysis, the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. An impairment charge could have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. We recorded an impairment charge of $0.9 million and $6.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in relation to our testosterone gel NDA asset and there can be no assurances that our intangible assets won’t be impaired in the future.. 29. Our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, investors could lose confidence in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, business, financial position, and operating results.. As a public company, we are required to comply with significant legal, accounting, and other requirements that ANIP Acquisition Company did not face as a private company and as such, have incurred significant regulatory compliance-related expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including those related to corporate governance practices.  Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements.  Some members of management do not have significant experience in addressing these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs relative to those of previous years and make some activities more time consuming and costly.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Our compliance with these requirements has required that we incur substantial accounting and related expenses and expend significant management efforts.  Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or identify deficiencies that are deemed to be material weaknesses, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce revenues in future fiscal periods.. We, like other generic drug manufacturers, have agreements with customers allowing chargebacks, product returns, administrative fees, and other rebates. Under many of these arrangements, we may match lower prices offered to customers by competitors. If we choose to lower our prices, we generally give the customer a credit on the products that the customer is holding in inventory, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesalers with whom we have contracts for their sales to hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies, or other customers. A chargeback is the difference between the price at which we invoice the wholesaler and the price that the wholesaler’s end-customer pays for a product. Although we establish reserves based on prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances, and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates.. Risks Related to our Debt. Making interest and principal payments on our Convertible Senior Notes due 2019 (the “Notes”), which were issued as of December 10, 2014, requires and will continue to require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flows from our business to make future interest and principal payments.. Our ability to continue to make scheduled interest payments and to make future principal payments or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flows from operations sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flows, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including the Notes, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 30. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, if we were to undergo a fundamental change, we would be required to repurchase the Notes, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, or if one or more holders elect to require us to repurchase their Notes in the event we undergo a fundamental change, as described below, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. In addition, holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. A “fundamental change” is deemed to occur if: (i) a person or group, other than us, directly or indirectly becomes the beneficial owner of common equity representing more than 50% of or voting power, (ii) consummation of a transaction that would result in the conversion or exchange of our common stock into other securities, cash, or assets, (iii) the sale of substantially all our assets, (iv) a change in the majority of our board of directors, (v) our stockholders approve a plan of liquidation, or (vi) our common stock ceases to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or the NASDAQ Global Market. If one or more holders requires us to repurchase their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we would be required to make cash payments as a result of the Notes being converted, which could adversely affect our liquidity. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase the Notes surrendered or being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority, or by agreements governing any future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial position, and operating results. Provisions in the indenture for the Notes may deter or prevent a business combination.. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, if a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such fundamental change. Also, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into a convertible note hedge transaction with Nomura Global Financial Products Inc. (“Nomura”). The convertible note hedge transaction reduces the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of Notes and/or offsets any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, as the case may be. We also entered into a warrant transaction with Nomura. The warrant transaction could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.. Nomura, or an affiliate thereof, established its initial hedge position on the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions by entering into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Notes. Nomura, or an affiliate thereof, may modify its hedge position by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the Notes (and is likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes). This activity could either cause or help avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. 31. Accounting for the Notes could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Accounting for the Notes has and will continue to impact our balance sheet, income statement, and earnings (loss) per share. In accounting for the Notes, we will recognize non-cash interest expense, which has and will continue to reduce our net income and earnings (loss) per share.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are accounted for utilizing a modified treasury stock method to determine diluted earnings per share, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the modified treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is treated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. Under the current standards, if we were to settle some or all of the Notes with shares of our common stock instead of with cash, we would be unable to use the treasury method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Our secured term loan (the “Term Loan”) and senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) contain restrictive and financial covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, we will be in default. A default could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, which would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Our Term Loan under the Credit Agreement as described in Note 2. Indebtedness, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Part II. Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has a loan balance of $75.0 million as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had not drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility.. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants that require maintenance of certain specified financial ratios and restricts our ability make certain distributions with respect to our capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber our assets, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures, engage in certain business combinations, transfer, lease or dispose of our assets, alter the character of our business in any material respect or undertake various other corporate activities. Therefore, as a practical matter, these covenants restrict our ability to engage in or benefit from such activities. Further, we must limit our total and senior secured leverage ratios and maintain our fixed charge coverage ratio at or above specified thresholds. In addition, we pledged our assets in order to secure our repayment obligations under the Credit Agreement. This pledge may reduce our operating flexibility because it restricts our ability to dispose of our assets or engage in other transactions that may be beneficial to us.. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement, we will be in default, which could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. If such an acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt and we may not be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. Changes in the method of determining London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"), or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt.. Amounts drawn under the Credit Agreement may bear interest rates in relation to LIBOR, depending on our selection of repayment options. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in the United Kingdom announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with a newly created index called the Broad Treasury Financing Rate, calculated with a broad set of short-term repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate the Credit Agreement and may not able to do so with terms that are favorable to us. The overall financial market may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Disruption in the financial market or the inability to renegotiate the Credit Agreement with favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results.. 32. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our principal stockholders, directors, and executive officers own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise meaningful influence over our business.. Our current principal stockholders, directors, and executive officers beneficially own approximately 31% of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions, or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from stockholders generally and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of ANI, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of ANI, and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid which may affect the market price of our common stock.. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select market was approximately 136 thousand shares. Because of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the market price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger.. Raising additional funds by issuing additional equity securities may cause dilution to our current stockholders. Raising additional funds by issuing new debt financing may restrict our operations.. We may seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities. If we were to raise funds through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be diluted, potentially significantly, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, the issuance of any equity securities could be at a discount to the then-prevailing market price of our common stock.. If we require new debt financing, there is no assurance that such a transaction will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we could be subject to onerous repayment terms or covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders.  These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock, or make investments. We can offer no assurance that any equity or debt financing transaction will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and an investment in our common stock could decline in value.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past, has increased significantly since the completion of the Merger, and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. From time to time, the securities of small capitalization, pharmaceutical companies, including ANI, experience significant market price fluctuations, often unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. In particular, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory or legal developments with respect to our industry, variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us, and rumors or new announcements by third parties, many of which are beyond our control and that may not be related to our operating performance.. In addition, the occurrence of any of the risks described in this report or in subsequent reports we file with the SEC could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons.  Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business, financial position, and operating results, as well as the market price of our common stock.. 33. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire ANI, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. ·authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred shares that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. ·prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. ·advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals and director nominations that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors; and. ·as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. 34"
