[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could vary significantly in the future depending on a number of factors. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. 13. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Failure to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, FDA or other U.S. and foreign governmental approvals for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Several of our current products, and any future products we may develop, will require clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy for United States and international marketing approval by regulatory bodies, including the FDA. Product development and approval within the FDA framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. There can be no assurance that the FDA will accept submissions related to our new products or the expansion of the indications of our current products, and, even if submissions are accepted, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will grant approval for our new products, including CINGAL, HYALOFAST, or other line extensions of our current products, or for the expansion of indications of our current products on a timely basis, if at all. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are subject to other existing and future federal, state, local, and foreign regulations applicable to product approval, which may vary significantly across jurisdictions. Additional approval of existing products may be required when changes to such products may affect the safety and effectiveness, including for new indications for use, labeling changes, process or manufacturing changes, the use of a different facility to manufacture, process or package the device, and changes in performance or design specifications. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals of our products, including any changes to existing products, could have an adverse material impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Even if ultimately granted, FDA and international regulatory approvals may be subject to significant, unanticipated delays throughout the regulatory approval process. Internally, we make assumptions regarding product approval timelines, both in the United States and internationally, in our business planning, and any delay in approval could materially affect our competitive position in the relevant product market and our projections related to future business results.. We cannot be certain that product approvals, both in the United States and internationally, will not include significant limitations on the product indications, and other claims sought for use, under which the products may be marketed. The relevant approval or clearance may also include other significant conditions of approval such as post-market testing, tracking, or surveillance requirements. Any of these factors could significantly impact our competitive position in relation to such products and could have a negative impact on the sales of such products.. Once obtained, we cannot guarantee that FDA or international product approvals will not be withdrawn or that relevant agencies will not require other corrective action, and any withdrawal or corrective action could materially affect our business and financial results.. Once obtained, marketing approval can be withdrawn by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory agencies for a number of reasons, including the failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. Regulatory authorities could also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of our products. Any regulatory limitations on the use of our products or any withdrawal or suspension of approval or rescission of approval by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our operations and products are subject to extensive regulation, compliance with which is costly and time consuming, and our failure to comply may result in substantial penalties, including recalls of our products.. The FDA and foreign regulatory bodies impose extensive regulations applicable to our operations and products, including regulations governing product standards, packing requirements, labeling requirements, quality system and manufacturing requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties, and tax requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve and maintain compliance required for FDA, CE marking, or other foreign regulatory approvals for any or all of our operations and products or that we will be able to produce our products in a timely and profitable manner while complying with applicable requirements.. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in substantial penalties, including warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to grant pre-market clearance or pre-market approval for devices or drugs, withdrawal of approvals, and criminal prosecution. Additionally, regulatory authorities have the power to require the recall of our products. It also might be necessary for us, in applicable circumstances, to initiate a voluntary recall per regulatory requirements of one or several of our products. The imposition of any of the foregoing penalties, whether voluntarily or involuntary, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 14. Any changes in FDA or international regulations related to product approval, including those that apply retroactively, could adversely affect our competitive position and materially affect our business and financial results.. FDA and foreign regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and we cannot assure you that future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, with possible retroactive effect, will not adversely affect us. Additionally, any changes, whether in interpretation or substance, in existing regulations or policies, or any future adoption of new regulations or policies by relevant regulatory bodies, could prevent or delay approval of our products. In the event our future, or current, products, including HA generally, are classified, or re-classified, as human drugs, combination products, or biologics by the FDA or an applicable international regulatory body, the applicable review process related to such products is typically substantially longer and substantially more expensive than the review process to which they are currently subject as medical devices, which could materially impact our competitive position, business, and financial results.. We are implementing a direct sales model to commercialize our CINGAL product, as well as certain other future products, in the United States and we may face unforeseen difficulties and delays in implementing this new model, which could affect our business and financial results.. For the first time, we are implementing a direct sales model to market and promote one of our products, CINGAL, in the United States, initially through a contract sales organization, with the ultimate goal of transitioning the direct sales function into our company as part of a broader buildout of our commercial capabilities. We may also use this direct model to commercialize other of our products in the United States in the future. Our success in utilizing this sales model will initially depend in part on our ability to successfully develop and implement the necessary internal and external resources to manage the contract sales organization and the sales of the product. Our longer term success will depend on our ability to transition the direct sales function into our company and to manage all resources associated with this function. We cannot assure you that there will not be unforeseen roadblocks or delays in finalizing the contracts related to, and implementing, the relationship with the contract sales organization, nor we can we assure you that we will not face setbacks in transitioning the direct sales function into our organization. The initial implementation timeline of this direct sales model is also dependent on CINGAL obtaining FDA approval in a timely manner, of which there is no guarantee. Failure to implement our direct sales model in a timely fashion or to successfully manage the implementation or transition process could materially impact our competitive position, business, and financial results.. Substantial competition could materially affect our financial performance.. We compete with many companies, including large pharmaceutical companies, specialized medical products companies, and healthcare companies. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs, more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations, and more experience in the regulatory process than us. We also compete with academic institutions, government agencies, and other research organizations that may be involved in research, development, and commercialization of products similar to our own. Because a number of companies are developing or have developed HA products for similar applications and have received FDA approval, the successful commercialization of a particular product will depend in part upon our ability to complete clinical studies and obtain FDA marketing and foreign regulatory approvals prior to our competitors, or, if regulatory approval is not obtained prior to our competitors, to identify markets for our products that may be sufficient to permit meaningful sales of our products. For example, we are aware of several companies that are developing and/or marketing products utilizing HA for a variety of human applications. In some cases, competitors have already obtained product approvals, submitted applications for approval, or have commenced human clinical studies, either in the United States or in certain foreign countries. There exist major competing products for the use of HA in ophthalmic surgery. In addition, certain HA products made by our competitors for the treatment of osteoarthritis in the knee received FDA approval before ours and have been marketed in the United States since 1997, as well as select markets in Canada, Europe, and other countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 15. We may rely on third parties to support certain aspects of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize our products, and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have hired experienced clinical development and regulatory staff, and we have also retained the services of knowledgeable external service providers, including consultants and clinical research organizations, to develop and supervise our clinical trials and regulatory processes. Despite our internal investment in staffing, we will remain dependent upon these third party contract research organizations to carry out portions of our clinical and preclinical research studies for the foreseeable future. As a result, we have had and will have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events, and the management of data developed through the trials than would be the case if we were relying entirely on our own staff. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. Failure by these third parties to comply with regulatory requirements or to meet timing expectations may require us to repeat clinical or preclinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process, or require substantial unexpected expenditures.. We are dependent upon marketing and distribution partners and the failure to maintain strategic alliances on acceptable terms will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our success will be dependent, in part, upon the efforts of our marketing and distribution partners and the terms and conditions of our relationships with such partners. One partner, Mitek accounted for 73% of our product revenue in fiscal year 2017. We cannot assure you that our partners, including Mitek, will not seek to renegotiate their current agreements on terms less favorable to us or terminate such agreements. A failure to renew these partnerships on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We continue to seek to establish long-term distribution relationships in regions and countries not covered by existing agreements, and we may need to obtain the assistance of additional marketing partners to bring new and existing products to market and to replace certain marketing partners. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or engage appropriate distribution or collaboration partners or effectively transition to any such partners. The failure to establish strategic partnerships for the marketing and distribution of our products on acceptable terms and within our planned timeframes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We must achieve market acceptance of our products in order to be successful in the future.. Our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals, physicians, other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective, or more cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners or viable commercial strategies for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our manufacturing processes involve inherent risks, and disruption could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The operation of biomedical manufacturing plants involves many risks, including the risks of breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives of government agencies, including the FDA. In addition, we rely on a single supplier for certain key raw materials and a small number of suppliers for a number of other materials required for the manufacturing and delivery of our HA products. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these and other components and raw materials that we use in our manufacturing processes are available, we cannot be certain that the supply of key raw materials, specifically HA, will continue be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our future needs. Any supply interruption could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. We may not be able to find sufficient alternative suppliers in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our ability to produce and supply our products could be impaired.. 16. We use raw materials derived from animal sources to produce certain of our products, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to utilize this source of material in the future.. Our manufacturing processes and research and development efforts for some of our ophthalmic and veterinary products involve products derived from animals. We procure our animal-derived raw materials from a qualified vendor, who controls for contamination and has processes that effectively inactivate infectious agents; however, we cannot assure you that we can completely eliminate the risk of transmission of infectious agents. Furthermore, regulatory authorities could in the future impose restrictions on the use of animal-derived raw materials that could impact our business.. The utilization of animals in research and development and product commercialization is subject to increasing focus by animal rights activists. The activities of animal rights groups and other organizations that have protested animal based research and development programs or boycotted the products resulting from such programs could cause an interruption in our manufacturing processes and research and development efforts. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the events described above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such operational difficulties and beyond.. We lease properties in the United States and Italy, and there is no guarantee that these leaseholds will be without issue or sufficient to support future growth.. We lease approximately 134,000 square feet of administrative, research and development, and manufacturing space in Bedford, MA and approximately 33,000 square feet of office, research and development, training, and warehousing space in Padova, Italy. The current term of the Bedford lease extends to 2022, and the current term of the Padova lease extends to 2032, each with several options for renewal. Please see Item 2 – Properties for additional information on our current leases. The nature of these leaseholds presents certain risks. We must maintain a positive working relationship with the respective owners as a dispute with either owner over payment, maintenance, or any other matter could be disruptive to our business. Additionally, there is a possibility that changes to our business or the geographic location of the facilities could make either location less suitable to our operations. Any renegotiation or termination of either lease could result in substantial cost or business interruption to our operations. Additionally, there is no guarantee that our current space will be sufficient to support our future growth or that any future relocation or expansion of our operations would be completed smoothly or in a timely manner due to, among other things, unexpected construction delays or unexpected difficulties related to the achievement of necessary permitting. Any business disruption as a result of any of these factors could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our financial performance depends on the continued sales growth and increasing demand for our products and we may not be able to successfully manage the expansion of our operations.. Our future success depends on substantial growth in product sales. There can be no assurance that such growth can be achieved or, if achieved, sustained. There can be no assurance that, even if substantial growth in product sales and the demand for our products is achieved, we will be able to:. ·     Develop and maintain the necessary manufacturing capabilities;. ·     Obtain the assistance of additional marketing partners or develop appropriate alternative sales strategies;. 17. ·     Attract, retain, and integrate required key personnel; and. ·     Implement the financial, accounting, and management systems needed to manage growing demand for our products.. Our failure to successfully manage future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may face circumstances in the future that will result in impairment charges, including, but not limited to, goodwill impairment and In-Process Research and Development (\"IPR&D\") charges.. As of December 31, 2017, we had long-lived assets, including goodwill and IPR&D, of $76.3 million. If the fair value of any of our long-lived assets decreases as a result of an economic slowdown, a downturn in the markets where we sell products and services, or a downturn in our financial performance or future outlook, we may be required to record an impairment charge on such assets.. We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite life periods for potential impairment annually and on an interim basis if there are indicators of a potential impairment. We also are required to evaluate amortizable intangible assets and fixed assets for impairment if there are indicators of a possible impairment. Impairment charges could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position, as well as on the market price of our common stock.. Customer, vendor, and employee uncertainty about the effects of any acquisitions could harm us.. We and the customers of any companies we acquire may, in response to the consummation of any acquisitions, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by customers could adversely affect our business. Similarly, employees of acquired companies may experience uncertainty about their future role until or after we execute our strategies with regard to employees of acquired companies. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, and technical personnel following an acquisition.. We may engage in acquisitions as a part of our future growth strategy, which exposes us to a variety of risks that could adversely affect our business operations.. Our business strategy includes the acquisition of businesses, technologies, services, or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We may fund these acquisitions by utilizing our cash, incurring debt, issuing additional shares of our common stock, or by other means. Completed acquisitions may expose us to a number of risks and expenses, including unanticipated liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives, or risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where commercial alliances with experienced partners or existing sales channels are not available. Whether or not completed, acquisitions may result in diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and significant expenditures.. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits of any completed acquisitions, including growth synergies and cost savings from the integration of acquired businesses or assets with our existing operations and technologies, as rapidly as expected, or at all. In addition, the integration and reorganization processes for our acquisitions may be complex, costly, and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses, and liabilities. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing, and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a manner that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines and allows us to realize value from expected synergies. Moreover, we may lose key clients or employees of acquired businesses as a result of the change in ownership to us. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. Acquisitions may also result in one-time charges, such as write-offs or restructuring charges, impairment of goodwill or acquired In-Process Research and Development, which could adversely affect our operating results. The failure to achieve the expected benefits of any acquisition may harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 18. The acquisitions we have made or may make in the future may make us the subject of lawsuits from either an acquired company's stockholders, an acquired company's previous stockholders, or our current stockholders.. We may be the subject of lawsuits from either an acquired company's stockholders, an acquired company's previous stockholders, or our current stockholders. These lawsuits could result from the actions of the acquisition target prior to the date of the acquisition, from the acquisition transaction itself, or from actions after the acquisition. Defending potential lawsuits could cost us significant expense and distract management's attention from the operation of the business. Additionally, these lawsuits could result in the cancellation of, or the inability to renew, certain insurance coverage that would be necessary to protect our assets.. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future.. We may consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not locate suitable acquisition targets or have the opportunity to make acquisitions of such targets on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. The availability of such financing is limited by the continued tightening of the global credit markets. We expect that our competitors, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do, will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue.. Sales of our products are largely dependent upon third party reimbursement and our performance may be harmed by health care cost containment initiatives.. In the United States and other foreign markets, health care providers, such as hospitals and physicians, that purchase health care products, such as our products, generally rely on third party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, and other health insurance and managed care plans, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the health care product. We generally depend upon the distributors of our products to secure reimbursement and reimbursement approvals. Reimbursement by third party payers, both in the United States and internationally, may depend on a number of factors, including the payer's determination that the use of our products is clinically useful and cost-effective, medically necessary, and not experimental or investigational. Since reimbursement approval is required from each payer individually, seeking such approvals can be a time consuming and costly process which, in the future, could require us or our marketing partners to provide supporting scientific, clinical, and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer separately. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, and any failure or delay in obtaining reimbursement approvals can negatively impact sales of our new products.. In addition, third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain the costs of health care products and services by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA, or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, has granted marketing approval. Also, the U.S. Congress, certain state legislatures, and certain foreign governments and regulatory agencies have considered reforms, including, among other items, the potential repeal of the Affordable Care Act in the United States, which may affect current reimbursement practices and create additional uncertainty about the pricing of our products, including the potential implementation of controls on health care spending through limitations on the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending. There can be no assurance that third party reimbursement coverage will be available or adequate for any products or services developed by us. Outside the United States, the success of our products is also dependent in part upon the availability of reimbursement and health care payment systems. Domestic and international reimbursement laws and regulations may change from time to time. Lack of adequate coverage and reimbursement provided by governments and other third party payers for our products and services, including continuing coverage for MONOVISC and ORTHOVISC in the United States, and any change of classification by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for ORTHOVISC and MONOVISC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 19. We may seek additional financing in the future, which could be difficult to obtain and which could dilute your ownership interest or the value of your shares.. We had cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $157.3 million at December 31, 2017. In addition, and subject to certain constraints, we have $50.0 million of credit available to us under our Senior Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend, however, on numerous factors, including:. ·     Market acceptance of our existing and future products;. ·     The success and sales of our products under various distributor agreements and other appropriate commercial strategies, including the ability of our partners to achieve third party reimbursement for our products;. ·     The successful commercialization of products in development;. ·     Progress in our product development efforts;. ·     The magnitude and scope of such product development efforts;. ·     Any potential acquisitions of products, technologies, or businesses;. ·     Progress with preclinical studies, clinical trials, and product approvals and clearances by the FDA and other agencies;. ·     The cost and timing of our efforts to manage our manufacturing capabilities and related costs;. ·     The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights and the cost of defending any other legal proceeding;. ·     Competing technological and market developments;. ·     The development of strategic alliances for the marketing of certain of our products;. ·     The terms of such strategic alliances, including provisions (and our ability to satisfy such provisions) that provide upfront and/or milestone payments to us; and. ·     The cost of maintaining adequate inventory levels to meet current and future product demand.. To the extent funds generated from our operations, together with our existing capital resources, are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will be required to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financings, through strategic alliances with corporate partners and others, or through other sources. The terms of any future equity financings may be dilutive to our investors and the terms of any debt financings may contain restrictive covenants, which limit our ability to pursue certain courses of action. Our ability to obtain financing is dependent on the status of our future business prospects as well as conditions prevailing in the relevant capital markets at the time we seek financing. No assurance can be given that any additional financing will be made available to us or will be available on acceptable terms should such a need arise.. We could become subject to product liability claims, which, if successful, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The testing, marketing, and sale of human health care products entail an inherent risk of allegations of product liability, and there can be no assurance that substantial product liability claims will not be asserted against us. Although we have not received any material product liability claims to date and have an insurance policy of $5.0 million per occurrence and $5.0 million in the aggregate to cover such product liability claims should they arise, there can be no assurance that material claims will not arise in the future or that our insurance will be adequate to cover all situations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such insurance, or additional insurance, if required, will be available in the future or, if available, will be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any product liability claim, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 20. Our business is dependent upon hiring and retaining qualified management and technical personnel.. We are highly dependent on the members of our management and technical staff, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced a number of management changes in recent years, and there can be no assurances that any future management changes will not adversely affect our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain technical and highly skilled executive, managerial, professional, and technical personnel. We face significant competition for such personnel from competitive companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining the personnel we require. The failure to hire and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental regulations and any failure to comply with applicable laws could subject us to significant liabilities and harm our business.. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal, and foreign government regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture, and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances used in the manufacture of our products. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal, or storage of hazardous chemicals or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. As our international sales and operations grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional economic, political, and other risks that could harm our business.. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, 20%, 19%, and 18%, respectively, of our product sales were to international distributors. We continue to be subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international and domestic operations. These risks include:. ·     The impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies, including Europe in particular, outside the United States;. ·     Instability of foreign economic, political, and labor conditions;. ·     Unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our European operations, such as severance and the unenforceability of non-competition agreements in the European Union;. ·     The impact of strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns, grievances, complaints, claims of unfair labor practices, or other collective bargaining disputes;. ·     Difficulties in complying with restrictions imposed by regulatory or market requirements, tariffs, or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws;. ·     Imposition of government controls limiting the volume of international sales;. ·     Longer accounts receivable payment cycles;. ·     Potentially adverse tax consequences, including, if required or applicable, difficulties transferring funds generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions to the United States in a tax efficient manner;. ·     Difficulties in protecting intellectual property, especially in international jurisdictions;. 21. ·     Difficulties in managing international operations; and. ·     Burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our reported earnings.. Approximately 5% of our business during 2017 was conducted in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. Thus, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Currently, we attempt to manage foreign currency risk through the matching of assets and liabilities. In the future, we may undertake to manage foreign currency risk through additional hedging methods. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in managing foreign currency risk or in predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates.. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from a small number of customers, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have historically derived the majority of our revenues from a small number of customers who resell our products to end-users, and most of these customers are significantly larger companies than us. For the year ended December 31, 2017, five customers accounted for 83% of product revenue, with Mitek alone accounting for 73% of product revenue. We expect to continue to be dependent on a small number of large customers, especially Mitek, for the majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The failure of these customers to purchase our products in the amounts they historically have or in amounts that we expect would seriously harm our business.. In addition, if present and future customers terminate their purchasing arrangements with us, significantly reduce or delay their orders, or seek to renegotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we accept terms less favorable than the terms of the current agreements, such renegotiations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Furthermore, in any future negotiations we may be subject to the perceived or actual leverage that these customers may have given their relative size and importance to us. Any termination, change, reduction, or delay in orders could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, or develop alternative commercial strategies, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of future purchases by our largest customers, and the financial and operational success of these customers. The loss of any one of our major customers or the delay of significant orders from such customers, even if only temporary, could reduce or delay our recognition of revenues, harm our reputation in the industry, and reduce our ability to accurately predict cash flow, and, as a consequence, it could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Information security breaches or business system disruptions, including our ongoing phased implementation of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, may adversely affect our business.. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and management information systems to effectively run our business. While we have not previously experienced a material information security breach caused by illegal hacking, computer viruses, or acts of vandalism or terrorism, we may in the future be subject to such a breach. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers may not detect or prevent such breaches. Any such compromise to our information security could result in an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, the unauthorized release of customer, vendor, or employee data, the violation of privacy, or other laws and exposure to litigation, any of which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, there may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our business systems, including with respect to our newly implemented ERP system and the planned system enhancements thereto, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 22. Our business may be adversely affected if consolidation in the healthcare industry leads to demand for price concessions or if we are excluded from being a supplier by a group purchasing organization or similar entity.. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms have been launched by legislators, regulators, and third-party payers to curb these costs. As a result, there has been a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create larger companies, including hospitals, with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and may continue to become more intense. This may result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important markets as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks, and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions. If a group purchasing organization excludes us from being one of their suppliers, our net sales could be adversely impacted. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products.. We experience quarterly sales volume variation, which makes our future results difficult to predict and makes period-to-period comparisons potentially not meaningful.. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our products sales as a result of multiple factors, many of which are outside of our control. These quarterly fluctuations create uncertainty as to the volume of sales that we may achieve in a given period. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis might not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results could be disproportionately affected by a reduction in revenue because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenue. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict, even in the near term.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could have a material impact on our business and future financial results.. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may not be successful. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and trademarks, to protect trade secrets, to obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties when necessary, and to conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical product, and biotechnology firms, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that any patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, that they will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage or will not be circumvented by others. Filing and prosecution of patent applications, litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, assertion of patent infringement claims against others, and the defense of patent infringement claims by others can be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that, in the event that any claims with respect to any of our patents, if issued, are challenged by one or more third parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation or patent review process could cause us to lose exclusivity covered by the disputed rights. If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the technologies or marketing the products covered by such rights, we could be subject to significant liabilities to such third party, and we could be required to license technologies from such third party in order to continue production of the products. Furthermore, even if our patents are determined to be valid, enforceable, and broad in scope, there can be no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. We have a policy of seeking patent protection for patentable aspects of our proprietary technology. We intend to seek patent protection with respect to products and processes developed in the course of our activities when we believe such protection is in our best interest and when the cost of seeking such protection is not inordinate. However, no assurance can be given that any patent application will be filed, that any filed applications will result in issued patents, or that any issued patents will provide us with a competitive advantage or will not be successfully challenged by third parties. The protections afforded by patents will depend upon their scope and validity, and others may be able to design around our patents.. 23. We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how for certain non-patented aspects of our technology. To protect such information, we require all employees, consultants, and licensees to enter into confidentiality agreements limiting the disclosure and use of such information. There can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and our technological advances will not otherwise become known to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain access to our proprietary technology. Further, there can be no assurance that third parties will not independently develop substantially equivalent or better technology.. There can be no assurance that we will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, which could have a significant impact on our business and financial results.. Other entities have filed patent applications for, or have been issued patents concerning, various aspects of HA-related products or processes. There can be no assurance that the products or processes developed by us will not infringe on the patent rights of others in the future. The cost of defending infringement suits is typically large, and there is no guarantee that any future defense would be successful. In addition, infringement could lead to substantial damages payouts or our inability to produce or market certain of our current or future products. As a result, any such infringement may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be highly volatile, and we cannot assure you that market making in our common stock will continue.. The market price of shares of our common stock may be highly volatile. Factors such as announcements of new commercial products or technological innovations by us or our competitors, disclosure of results of clinical testing or regulatory proceedings, government regulation and approvals, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of products developed by us, and general market conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, material announcements by us or our competitors, governmental regulatory action, conditions in the health care industry generally or in the medical products industry specifically, or other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many medical products companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of equity research analysts and investors. In such an event, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. No person is under any obligation to publish research or reports on us, and any person publishing research or reports on us may discontinue doing so at any time without notice. If adequate research coverage is not maintained on our company or if any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 24. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock in the foreseeable future, and their ability to achieve a return on their investment will therefore depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. Our charter documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company.. Certain provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated By-laws could have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover of us and preventing certain changes in control. These provisions include a classified Board of Directors, advance notice to the Board of Directors of stockholder proposals, limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors and to call stockholder meetings, and the provision that vacancies on the Board of Directors be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors. In addition, the Board of Directors adopted a ten-year Shareholders Rights Plan in April 2008. We are also subject to Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Massachusetts corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. All of these provisions, policies, and plans are reviewed periodically by our Board of Directors. These provisions could discourage a third party from pursuing a takeover of us at a price considered attractive by many stockholders, since such provisions could have the effect of preventing or delaying a potential acquirer from acquiring control of us and our Board of Directors."
