[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk.  If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer.. Natural gas, NGLs, and oil prices are volatile. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The prices we receive for our natural gas, NGLs, and oil production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Natural gas, NGLs, and oil are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities market has been volatile. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tworldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas, including liquefied natural gas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe price and quantity of export of natural gas, including liquefied natural gas, and NGLs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical conditions in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of global exploration and production;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of global inventories;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlocalized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttechnological advances affecting energy consumption;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe price and availability of alternative fuels; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic, local and foreign governmental regulation and taxes.. 25. Table of Contents. In late 2014, global energy commodity prices declined precipitously as a result of several factors, including an increase in worldwide commodity supplies, a stronger U.S. dollar, relatively mild weather in large portions of the U.S., and strong competition among some oil producing countries for market share.  Commodity prices remained depressed in 2015 and into 2016, although a modest recovery began in late 2016, and has continued intermittently in 2017 and 2018.. Lower commodity prices reduce our product revenues and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our reserves as existing reserves are depleted. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can produce economically.. If commodity prices further decrease, a significant portion of our exploration and development projects could become uneconomic. This may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Drilling for and producing oil and gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploration, development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable hydrocarbons. Our decisions to purchase, explore, or develop prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprolonged declines in natural gas, NGLs, and oil prices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations in the market for natural gas, NGLs, and oil;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with regulatory requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpressure or irregularities in geological formations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tshortages of, or delays in, obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tequipment failures or accidents;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse weather conditions, such as blizzards, tornados, hurricanes and ice storms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissues related to compliance with environmental regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenvironmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited availability of financing at acceptable terms; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmineral interest title problems.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield natural gas or oil in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically. 26. Table of Contents. viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether natural gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas or oil will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected drilling conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmineral interest title problems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpressure or lost circulation in formations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tequipment failure or accidents;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse weather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to natural gas, NGLs, and oil markets or delay our production.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory natural gas, NGLs, and oil transportation arrangements may hinder our access to natural gas, NGLs, and oil markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas, NGLs, and oil and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas, NGLs, and oil pipelines or gathering or processing system capacity. In addition, if natural gas, NGLs, or oil quality specifications for the pipelines with which we connect change so as to restrict our ability to transport our production, our access to natural gas, NGLs, and oil markets could be impeded. If our production becomes shut in for any of these or other reasons, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until other arrangements were made to deliver the products to market.. The development of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. At December 31, 2017, 51% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Our approximately 8.8 Tcfe of estimated proved undeveloped reserves will require an estimated $3.3 billion of development capital over the next five years. Moreover, the development of probable and possible reserves will require additional capital expenditures and such reserves are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves, or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the PV - 10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved undeveloped reserves as unproved reserves.. Our exploration and development projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and gas reserves.. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the exploration, development, production, and acquisition of oil and gas reserves. Our cash flow used in investing activities related to drilling, completions, and land expenditures, including acquisitions, was approximately $1.7 billion in 2017. Our board of directors has approved a capital budget for 2018 of $1.45 billion that includes $1.3 billion for drilling and completion and $150 million for core leasehold expenditures. Our capital budget excludes acquisitions. We expect to fund these capital expenditures with cash generated by operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or capital market transactions; however, our financing needs may require. 27. Table of Contents. us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our capital budget as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological, and competitive developments.  A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. For additional discussion of the risks regarding our ability to obtain funding, please read \"Item 1A. Risk Factors  -  The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be reduced if commodity prices decline, which could hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.\"  The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour proved reserves;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe prices at which our production is sold;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe value of our commodity derivative portfolio; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, including any potential decrease in the borrowing base.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas, NGLs, and oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under our revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our stockholders have investments in our affiliates that may conflict with the interests of other stockholders.. Certain funds affiliated with Warburg, certain funds affiliated with Yorktown, Paul M. Rady and Glen C. Warren, Jr. (collectively, the \"Sponsors\") collectively own 100% of the general partner of, and a majority of the outstanding common shares representing limited partner interest in, Antero Midstream GP LP (\"AMGP\"), the owner of IDR LLC, the holder of the IDRs in Antero Midstream. Messrs. Rady and Warren also own a portion of the Series B Units in IDR LLC. Affiliates of Warburg and Yorktown, Mr. Rady and Mr. Warren serve as members of the board of directors of AMGP's general partner and board of directors of Antero Midstream's general partner, and each of Warburg and Yorktown are controlled in part by individuals who serve as members of the board of directors of AMGP's general partner and the board of directors of Antero Midstream's general partner. The Sponsors also own common units representing limited partner interests in Antero Midstream and shares of our common stock. As a result of their investments in AMGP, IDR LLC and Antero Midstream, the Sponsors may have conflicting interests with other stockholders. These conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and the Sponsors, on the other hand, regarding, among other things, decisions related to our financing, capital expenditures, and growth plans, decisions to modify or limit the IDRs in the future, the terms of our agreements with Antero Midstream and AMGP and their respective subsidiaries and the pursuit of potentially competitive business activities or business opportunities.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness obligations, including our revolving credit facility and our senior notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes.. 28. Table of Contents. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets, including the market for senior unsecured notes, and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indentures governing our senior notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes currently restrict our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be reduced if commodity prices decline, which could hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is currently $4.5 billion, and lender commitments under our revolving credit facility are $2.5 billion. Our borrowing base is redetermined by the lenders each April based on our reserves and hedge position, with the next borrowing base redetermination scheduled to occur in April 2018.  Our borrowing base may decrease as a result of a decline in natural gas, NGLs, or oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, the issuance of new indebtedness or for any other reason.   We cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms.   In the event of a decrease in our borrowing base due to declines in commodity prices or otherwise, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due and could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. In addition, we may be unable to access the equity or debt capital markets, including the market for senior unsecured notes, to meet our obligations.  As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out our business plan, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. We may be unable to access the equity or debt capital markets, including the market for senior unsecured notes, to meet our obligations.. Due to the decline in commodity prices throughout 2015 and 2016, the financial markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for companies throughout the energy industry.  In particular, throughout much of 2015 and 2016, the market for senior unsecured notes was unfavorable for high-yield issuers such as us. Our plans for growth require regular access to the capital and credit markets, including the ability to issue senior unsecured notes. Although the market for high-yield debt securities improved in the latter part of 2016 and throughout most of 2017, if the high-yield market deteriorates, or if we are unable to access alternative means of debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants (in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of additional indebtedness), including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake loans to others;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into mergers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thedge future production;. 29. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur liens; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. The indentures governing our senior notes contain similar restrictive covenants. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. These restrictions, together with those in the indentures governing our senior notes, may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under the indentures governing our senior notes and our revolving credit facility impose on us.. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine on a semi - annual basis based upon projected revenues from the natural gas properties and commodity derivatives securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the requisite number of lenders do not agree to an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base acceptable to such lenders.  For additional discussion of the risks regarding our ability to obtain funding under our revolving credit facility, please read \"Item 1A. Risk Factors  -  A sustained decline of oil and natural gas prices may affect our ability to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our revolving credit facility. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.\". A breach of any covenant in our revolving credit facility would result in a default under that agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under the facility and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, during 2017, we had estimated average outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facilities of approximately $840 million, and the impact of a 1.0% increase in interest rates on this amount of indebtedness would result in increased interest expense for that period of approximately $8 million and a corresponding decrease in our net income before the effects of income taxes.  Disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. Currently, we receive significant incremental cash flows as a result of our hedging activity. To the extent we are unable to obtain future hedges at effective prices consistent with those we have received to date and natural gas prices do not improve, our cash flows may be adversely impacted. Additionally, if development drilling costs increase significantly in the future, our hedged revenues may not be sufficient to cover our costs.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to downward price fluctuations, as of December 31, 2017, we had entered into a number of hedge contracts for approximately 2.8 Tcfe of our projected natural gas, NGLs, and oil production through December 31, 2023. We are currently realizing a significant benefit from these hedge positions. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, we received approximately $1.0 billion and $964 million, respectively, in revenues from cash settled derivatives pursuant to our hedging arrangements, including $750 million for certain natural gas hedges that were monetized during the year ended December 31, 2017. Many of the hedge agreements that resulted in these realized gains for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 were executed at times when spot and future prices were higher than prices that we are currently able to obtain in the futures market, and the price at which we have been able to hedge future production has decreased as a result.  Sustained weaknesses in commodity prices adversely affect our ability to hedge future production, particularly on a local basis. If we are unable to enter into new hedge contracts in the future at favorable pricing and for a sufficient amount of our production, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 30. Table of Contents. Additionally, since we have financial derivatives in place in order to hedge against price declines for a significant part of our estimated future production, we have fixed a significant part of our overall future revenues. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, approximately 97% and 100%, respectively, of our production was protected from price declines by our financial derivative contracts. If development drilling costs increase significantly because of inflation, increased demand for oilfield services, increased costs to comply with regulations governing our industry or other factors, the payments we receive under these derivative contracts may not be sufficient to cover our costs.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.  In certain circumstances, we may have to make cash payments under our hedging arrangements and these payments could be significant.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, NGLs, and oil we enter into derivative instrument contracts for a significant portion of our natural gas production, including fixed - price swaps. As of December 31, 2017, we had entered into hedging contracts through December 31, 2023 covering a total of approximately 2.8 Tcfe of our projected natural gas, NGLs, and oil production at weighted average index price of $3.39 per MMBtu. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthere is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthere are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices, and interest rates.. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for natural gas, NGLs, and oil, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition. If natural gas or oil prices upon settlement of our derivative contracts exceed the price at which we have hedged our commodities, we will be obligated to make cash payments to our hedge counterparties, which could, in certain circumstances, be significant.. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk.. As of December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of our commodity derivative contracts was approximately $1.3 billion (excluding short-term commodity derivatives related to our marketing activities), including the following values by bank counterparty: JP Morgan - $288 million; Morgan Stanley - $285 million; Citigroup - $245 million; Scotiabank - $171 million; Wells Fargo - $136 million; Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce - $51 million; Toronto Dominion Bank - $38 million; BNP Paribas - $30 million; Bank of Montreal - $21 million; Fifth Third Bank - $15 million; SunTrust - $9 million; Natixis - $7 million; and Capital One - $6 million.  The credit ratings of certain of these banks were downgraded several years ago because of various economic factors, including the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract.. We are required to pay fees to our service providers based on minimum volumes under long-term contracts regardless of actual volume throughput.. We have various firm transportation, gas processing, gathering and compression service and water handling and treatment agreements in place, each with minimum volume delivery commitments. Lower commodity prices may lead to reductions in our drilling program, which may result in insufficient production to utilize our full firm transportation and processing capacity.  Our firm transportation agreements expire at various dates from 2018 to 2058, our gas processing, gathering, and compression services agreements expire at various dates from 2018 to 2033, and our water services agreement with Antero Midstream expires in 2035. We. 31. Table of Contents. are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to our service providers regardless of actual volume throughput.  As of December 31, 2017, our long - term contractual obligations under agreements with minimum volume commitments totaled over $18.3 billion over the term of the contracts.  If we have insufficient production to meet the minimum volumes, our cash flow from operations will be reduced, which may require us to reduce or delay our planned investments and capital expenditures or seek alternative means of financing, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Based on current projected 2018 annual production levels, we estimate that we could incur total annual net marketing costs of $100 million to $125 million in 2018 for depending on the amount of unutilized capacity that can be marketed to third parties or utilized to transport third party gas and capture positive basis differentials.  Additionally, in years subsequent to 2018, our commitments and obligations under firm transportation agreements continue to increase and our net marketing expense could continue to increase depending on utilization of our transportation capacity based on future production and how much, if any, future excess transportation can be marketed to third parties.. We may be limited in our ability to choose gathering operators, processing and fractionation services providers and water services providers in our areas of operations pursuant to our agreements with Antero Midstream.. Pursuant to the gas gathering and compression agreement that we have entered into with Antero Midstream, we have dedicated the gathering and compression of all of our current and future natural gas production in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania to Antero Midstream, so long as such production is not otherwise subject to a pre - existing dedication. Further, pursuant to the right of first offer agreement that we have entered into with Antero Midstream, Antero Midstream has a right to bid to provide certain processing and fractionation services in respect of all of our current and future gas production (as long as it is not subject to a pre - existing dedication) and will be entitled to provide such services if its bid matches or is more favorable to us than terms proposed by other parties. As a result, we will be limited in our ability to use other gathering and compression operators in West Virginia, Ohio and Pennsylvania, even if such operators are able to offer us more efficient service. We will also be limited in our ability to use other processing and fractionation services providers in any area to the extent Antero Midstream is able to offer a competitive bid.. Pursuant to the Water Services Agreement that we have entered into with Antero Midstream, we have dedicated the provision of fresh water and wastewater services in defined service areas in Ohio and West Virginia to Antero Midstream. Additionally, the Water Services Agreement provides Antero Midstream with a right of first offer on any future areas of operation outside of those defined areas. As a result, we will be limited in our ability to use other water services providers in the dedication areas of Ohio and West Virginia or other future areas of operation, even if such providers are able to offer us more favorable pricing or more efficient service.. If additional takeaway pipelines under construction or other pipeline projects are not completed, our future growth may be limited.. We have secured sufficient long-term firm takeaway capacity on major pipelines that are in existence or currently under construction in each of our core operating areas to accommodate our current development plans; however, any failure of any pipeline under construction to be completed, or any unavailability of existing takeaway pipelines, could cause us to curtail our future development and production plans, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to produce oil and gas economically and in commercial quantities is dependent on the availability of adequate supplies of water for drilling and completion operations and access to water and other waste disposal or recycling services at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water and other waste may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which we depend to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. The availability of disposal alternatives to receive all of the water produced from our wells may affect our production. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations. Additionally, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to obtain water or dispose of waste and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure. 32. Table of Contents. through a cased and cemented wellbore into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations, as does most of the domestic oil and natural gas industry. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and issued permitting guidance in February 2014 regarding such activities.  Also, in May 2014, the EPA proposed rules under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing; however, to date, no further action has been taken on the proposal.  The EPA finalized rules in June 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. Certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources.  The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. Because the report did not find a direct link between hydraulic fracturing itself and contamination of groundwater resources, this years-long study report does not appear to provide any basis for further regulation of hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in January 2016, the PADEP issued new rules establishing stricter disposal requirements for wastes associated with hydraulic fracturing activities, which include, among other things, a prohibition on the use of centralized impoundments for the storage of drill cuttings and waste fluids. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Some states and municipalities have sought to ban hydraulic fracturing altogether. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect our estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as realized prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, realized prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust our reserve estimates to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, existing commodity prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate.. 33. Table of Contents. Our identified potential well locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill our potential well locations.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of our future multi - year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas, NGLs, and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, lease acquisitions, surface agreements, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous potential well locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential well locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. For more information on our future potential acreage expirations, see \"Item 1. Business and Properties - Our Properties and Operations - Acreage - Undeveloped Acreage Expirations.\". As of December 31, 2017, we had 4,133 identified potential horizontal well locations located in our proved, probable, and possible reserve base. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of our potential well locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. For more information on our identified potential well locations, see \"Item 1. Business and Properties - Our Properties and Operations - Estimated Proved Reserves - Identification of Potential Well Locations.\". Approximately 79% of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases as well as have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income.. Approximately 79% of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. In addition, approximately 44% and 58% of our natural gas leases related to our Marcellus and Utica acreage, respectively, require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells, we could lose our rights under such leases. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. For more information on our future potential acreage expirations, see \"Item 1. Business and Properties - Our Properties and Operations - Acreage - Undeveloped Acreage Expirations.\". The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves.. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the twelve month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by factors such as the actual prices we receive for natural gas, NGLs and oil, the amount, timing and cost of actual production and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating the standardized measure is based on SEC guidelines, and may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.. Our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin in West Virginia and Ohio. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of natural gas,. 34. Table of Contents. NGLs, or oil.  Furthermore, substantially all of our liquids-rich natural gas is processed at two processing facilities.  If service interruptions are experienced at either facility, it would lead to a decline in our production and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our failure to develop, obtain, access or maintain the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver natural gas, NGLs and oil to market may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our delivery of natural gas, NGLs and oil depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and gathering and processing and fractionation facilities. The capacity of transmission, gathering and processing and fractionation facilities may be insufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells, which may result in substantial discounts in the prices we receive for our natural gas, NGLs and oil. While our investment in midstream infrastructure through Antero Midstream is intended to address access to and potential curtailments on existing midstream infrastructure, we also deliver to and are served by third-party natural gas, NGLs and oil transmission, gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities that are limited in number, geographically concentrated and subject to significant risks, including the availability of capital, materials and qualified contractors and work force, as well as weather conditions, natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, delays in obtaining permits and other government approvals, title and property access problems, geology, public opposition to infrastructure development, compliance by third parties with their contractual obligations to us and other factors. An extended interruption of access to or service from our or third-party pipelines and facilities for any reason, including cyber-attacks on such pipelines and facilities or service interruptions due to gas quality, could result in adverse consequences to us, such as delays in producing and selling our natural gas, NGLs and oil.  In such an event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell our production at prices lower than market prices or at prices lower than we currently project, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest at the time of acquisition. Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest. Leases in the Appalachian Basin are particularly vulnerable to title deficiencies due to the long history of land ownership in the area, resulting in extensive and complex chains of title. Additionally, there are claims against us alleging that certain acquired leases that are held by production are invalid due to production from the producing horizons being insufficient to hold title to the formation rights that we have purchased. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. While we do typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value for a significant period of time, we will be required to take write - downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment if the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of our properties. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non - cash charge to earnings. We may incur significant impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and, eventually, production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. 35. Table of Contents. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.. In addition to credit risk related to receivables from commodity derivative contracts, our principal exposures to credit risk are through the following: the sale of our oil and gas production ($263 million in receivables at December 31, 2017), which we market to energy marketing companies, end users, and refineries; the marketing of our excess firm transportation capacity ($37 million at December 31, 2017), and joint interest receivables ($11 million at December 31, 2017). Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leased properties on which we drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our natural gas during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 accounted for approximately 22% of our product revenues. We do not require all of our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our exploration, development and production activities. These delays, costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment and occupational health and workplace safety, including regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become increasingly strict over time resulting in longer waiting periods to receive permits and other regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations.. Strict, joint and several liabilities may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental and occupational health and workplace safety impacts of our operations. We have been named from time to time as a defendant in litigation related to such matters. For example, we have been named as the defendant in separate lawsuits in Colorado, West Virginia, Ohio, and Pennsylvania with regards to our operations or royalty payment practices. The plaintiffs have requested unspecified damages and other injunctive or equitable relief. We are not yet able to estimate what our aggregate exposure for monetary or other damages resulting from these or other similar claims might be. Also, new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing natural gas, including the possibility of:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenvironmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tabnormally pressured formations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. 36. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpersonal injuries and death;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tterrorist attacks targeting natural gas and oil related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinjury or loss of life;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdamage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpollution and other environmental damage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory investigations and penalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspension of our operations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities.. Our natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production and transportation of, natural gas, NGLs, and oil. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Changes to existing or new regulations may unfavorably impact us. Such potential regulations could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay or halt our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, completion services, equipment, supplies, personnel, and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages could delay or cause. 37. Table of Contents. us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. Although the FERC has not made any formal determinations with respect to any of our facilities, we believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. The distinction between FERC - regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case - by - case basis, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the EPAct of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,213,503 per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our systems have not been regulated by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non - FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case by case basis. These EPA rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. For example, in December 2015, the EPA finalized rules that added new sources to the scope of the GHG monitoring and reporting rule. These new sources include gathering and boosting facilities, as well as completions and workovers of hydraulically fractured wells. The revisions also include the addition of well identification reporting requirements for certain facilities.  These changes to EPA's GHG emissions reporting rule could result in increased compliance costs.. As noted above, in June 2016, the EPA finalized new regulations that establish emission standards for methane and volatile organic compounds from new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities.  The EPA's rule package includes first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions.  In addition, the rule package extends existing VOC standards under the EPA's Subpart OOOO to include previously unregulated equipment within the oil and natural gas source category. In June 2017, the EPA proposed to stay these requirements for two years and revisit the entirety of the 2016 standards. Comments to the EPA's proposal were due in August 2017.  The EPA has not yet published a final rule.  As a result of these developments, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, the prospect for adoption of significant legislation at the federal level to reduce GHG emissions is perceived to be low at this time.  In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect. 38. Table of Contents. demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Depending on the severity of any such limitations, the effect on the value of our reserves could be significant. Finally, it should be noted that a number of scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts, and other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water and thus could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration, development, production, and acquisition activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time.. Finally, it should be noted that a number of scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts, and other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water and thus could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations.. Regulations related to the protection of wildlife adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by regulations designed to protect various wildlife. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in constraints on our exploration and production activities. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. Competition in the natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Terrorist or cyber - attacks and threats could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist or cyber - attacks may significantly affect the energy industry, including our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, as well as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity. Strategic targets, such as energy - related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. We depend on digital technology in many areas of our business and operations, including, but not limited to, estimating quantities of natural gas, NGLs, and oil reserves, processing and recording financial and operating data, oversight and analysis of drilling operations, and communications with our employees and third-party customers or service providers.  Deliberate attacks on our assets, security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third-parties or the cloud, could lead to the corruption or loss of our proprietary and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery of our production to customers, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, or other operational disruptions and third-party liabilities. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, ransomware, attempts to gain. 39. Table of Contents. unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data.. As cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber-attacks. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our personnel, information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks; however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including Paul M. Rady, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Glen C. Warren, Jr., our President and Chief Financial Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecoverable reserves;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture natural gas, NGLs, and oil prices and their applicable differentials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating costs; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.. 40. Table of Contents. Strategic determinations, including the allocation of capital and other resources to strategic opportunities, are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate capital and resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial condition and reduce our future growth rate.. Our future growth prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. In developing our 2018 business plan, we considered allocating capital and other resources to various aspects of our businesses, including well development, reserve acquisitions, exploratory activities, midstream infrastructure, corporate items and other alternatives. We also considered our likely sources of capital. Notwithstanding the determinations made in the development of our 2018 plan, business opportunities not previously identified periodically come to our attention, including possible acquisitions and dispositions. If we fail to identify optimal business strategies, including the appropriate corporate structure, appropriate rate of reserve development, or fail to optimize our capital investment and capital raising opportunities and the use of our other resources in furtherance of our business strategies, our financial condition and growth rate may be adversely affected. Moreover, economic or other circumstances may change from those contemplated by our 2018 plan, and our failure to recognize or respond to those changes may limit our ability to achieve our objectives.. We periodically engage in acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions, including joint ventures. These transactions involve various inherent risks, such as our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; the timing of and conditions imposed upon us by regulators in connection with such approvals; the assumption of potential environmental or other liabilities; and our ability to realize the benefits expected from the transactions. In addition, various factors including prevailing market conditions could negatively impact the benefits we receive from transactions. Competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Joint venture arrangements may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. Moreover, joint venture arrangements involve various risks and uncertainties, such as committing us to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which we may have little control over, and our joint venture partners may not satisfy their obligations to the joint venture. Our inability to complete a transaction or to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any transaction could have significant adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Changes to state tax laws in response to recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation or to impose new or increased taxes or fees on natural gas and oil extraction may result in an increase in the state taxes we pay.. Currently, many states conform their calculation of corporate taxable income to the calculation of corporate taxable income at the U.S. federal level.  Due to recently enacted changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, certain states may change or modify the calculation of corporate taxable income at the state level.  Any resulting increase in costs due to such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain states may impose new or increased taxes or fees on natural gas and oil extraction. For example Ohio has previously considered, and its legislature continues to consider, proposals to increase the current severance tax imposed on natural gas or oil in Ohio.  It is possible that Ohio could propose and implement a new or increased severance tax in the coming years, which would negatively affect our future cash flows and financial condition.. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of recently enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation may vary from our current interpretation of such legislation.. The U.S. federal income tax legislation recently enacted in Public Law No. 115-97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
