[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The risk factors set forth below reflect material risks associated with existing and potential business and contain \"forward-looking statements\" as discussed in the \"Business\" Section of Part I, Item 1 of this report. Readers should consider them in addition to the other information contained in this report as our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of these risks were to actually occur.. The following are material risks related to our businesses specifically and the industries in which we operate generally that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements in this document and elsewhere.. Business Risks. An overall decline in economic activity could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our business.. The results of our operations are generally affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets these clients serve. Economic downturns, volatility, or uncertainty in some markets may cause reductions in technology and discretionary spending by our clients, which may result in reductions in the growth of new business or reductions in existing business. If our clients become financially less stable, enter bankruptcy, liquidate their operations or consolidate, our revenues and collectability of receivables could be adversely affected.. The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and generally falls as such activity decreases, affecting both the commissions and fees generated by our Commercial Risk Solutions, Reinsurance. 7. Solutions, and Data and Analytic Services revenue lines. The economic activity that impacts property and casualty insurance is most closely correlated with employment levels, corporate revenue, and asset values. Downward fluctuations in the year-over-year insurance premiums charged by insurers to protect against the same risk, referred to in the industry as softening of the insurance market, could adversely affect these businesses as a significant portion of the earnings are determined as a percentage of premium charged to our clients. Insolvencies and consolidations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business.  Also, error and omission claims against us, which we refer to as errors and omissions (\"E&O\") claims, may increase in economic downturns, also adversely affecting our business.. We face significant competitive pressures.. As a global professional services firm, we compete with global, national, regional and local insurance companies who market and service their own products, other financial services providers, brokers, and investment managers, independent firms, and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial services firms. We compete with respect to service, product features, price, commission structure, financial strength, ability to access certain insurance markets, and name recognition.. Our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more comprehensive products, stronger presence in certain geographies, or more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. In addition, new competitors, alliances among competitors, or mergers of competitors could emerge and gain significant market share, and some of our competitors may have or may develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Competitors may be able to respond to the need for technological changes and innovate faster, or price their services more aggressively. They may also compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth, and compete for market share more effectively than we do. This competition is intensified by an industry trend where clients engage multiple brokers to service different portions of their accounts. If we fail to respond successfully to the competition we face, our financial condition or results of operations might be adversely affected.. If our clients or third parties are not satisfied with our services, we may face additional cost, loss of profit opportunities, damage to our reputation, or legal liability.. We depend, to a large extent, on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality advice and solutions focused on risk, retirement, and health.  If a client is not satisfied with our services, it could cause us to incur additional costs and impair profitability. Many of our clients are businesses that band together in industry groups or trade associations and actively share information among themselves about the quality of service they receive from their vendors. Accordingly, poor service to one client may negatively impact our relationships with multiple other clients. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability or loss of client relationships.. The nature of much of our work involves assumptions and estimates concerning future events, the actual outcome of which we cannot know with certainty in advance. In our investment consulting business, we may be measured based on our track record regarding judgments and advice on investments that are susceptible to influences unknown at the time the advice was given. In addition, we could make computational, software programming, or data entry or management errors. A client may claim it suffered losses due to reliance on our consulting advice, which poses risks of liability exposure and costs of defense and increased insurance premiums.  In addition, claims arising from our professional services may produce publicity that could hurt our reputation and business and adversely affect our ability to secure new business.. Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is a key asset of the Company. We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition, and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters or others could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and maintain existing ones.  Negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct by us or those currently or formerly associated with us in any number of activities or circumstances, the use and protection of data and systems, satisfaction of client expectations, and regulatory compliance.  This damage to our reputation could affect the confidence of our clients, rating agencies, regulators, stockholders, and third parties in transactions that are important to our business adversely effecting on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 8. Revenues from commission arrangements may fluctuate due to many factors, including cyclical or permanent changes in the insurance and reinsurance markets outside of our control.. Revenues from commission arrangements have historically been affected by significant fluctuations arising from uncertainties and changes in the industries in which we operate. A significant portion of our revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. We have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets.. In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by:. • the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs, including a greater willingness on the part of corporations to \"self-insure,\" the use of so-called \"captive\" insurers, and the development of capital markets-based solutions and other alternative capital sources for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs that increase market capacity, increase competition and put pressure on pricing;. • fluctuation in the need for insurance as the economic downturn continues, as clients either go out of business or scale back their operations, and thus reduce the amount of insurance, they procure;. • the level of compensation, as a percentage of premium, that insurance carriers are willing to compensate brokers for placement activity;. • the growing desire of clients to move away from variable commission rates and instead compensate brokers based upon flat fees, which can negatively impact us as fees are not generally indexed for inflation and do not automatically increase with premium as does commission-based compensation; and. • competition from insurers seeking to sell their products directly to consumers, including online sales, without the involvement of an insurance broker.. The profitability of our consulting engagements with clients may not meet our expectations due to unexpected costs, cost overruns, early contract terminations, unrealized assumptions used in our contract bidding process or the inability to maintain our prices.. Our profitability with respect to consulting engagements is highly dependent upon our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we adapt to changes in our business, adapt to the regulatory environment, enter into new engagements, acquire additional businesses, and take on new employees in new locations, we may not be able to manage our large, diverse and changing workforce, control our costs, or improve our efficiency.. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the staffing costs for our personnel. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or appropriately manage the staffing costs of our personnel, we may not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including competitive factors, cost of living adjustment provisions, the extent of ongoing clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services, and general economic conditions. If we cannot drive suitable cost efficiencies, our profit margins will suffer. Our cost efficiencies may be impacted by factors such as our ability to transition consultants from completed projects to new assignments, our ability to secure new consulting engagements, our ability to forecast demand for consulting services (and, consequently, appropriately manage the size and location of our workforce), employee attrition, and the need to devote time and resources to training and professional and business development.. In our investment consulting business, we advise or act on behalf of clients regarding their investments. The results of these investments are uncertain and subject to numerous factors, some of which are within our control and some which are not. Clients that experience losses or lower than expected investment returns may leave us for competitors and/or assert claims against us.. Our investment consulting business provides advice to clients on: investment strategy, which can include advice on setting investment objectives, asset allocation, and hedging strategies; selection (or removal) of investment managers; the investment in different investment instruments and products; and the selection of other investment service providers such as custodians and transition managers. For some clients, we are responsible for making decisions on these matters and we may implement such decisions in a fiduciary or agency capacity without assuming title or custody over the underlying funds or assets invested. Asset classes may experience poor absolute performance and third parties we recommend or select, such as investment managers, may underperform their benchmarks due to poor market performance, negligence, or other reasons, resulting in poor investment returns or losses. These losses may be attributable in whole or in part to failures on our part or to events entirely outside of our control. Regardless of the cause, clients experiencing losses may assert claims against us, and these claims may be for significant amounts. Defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs, as well as cause substantial distraction and diversion of other resources. Furthermore, our ability to limit our potential liability is restricted in certain jurisdictions. 9. and in connection with claims involving breaches of fiduciary or agency duties or other alleged errors or omissions. Additionally, clients experiencing losses or lower than expected investment returns may leave us for our competitors.. Financial Risks. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows.. We face exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates of currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, as a significant portion of our business is located outside of the U.S. These exposures may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Approximately 56% of our consolidated revenue is non-U.S., attributed on the basis of where the services are performed, and the exposures created can have significant currency volatility.  These currency exchange fluctuations create risk in both the translation of the financial results of our global subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements, as well as in those of our operations that receive revenue and incur expenses other than in their respective local currencies, which can reduce the profitability of our operations based on the direction the respective currencies' exchange rates move.  A decrease in the value of certain currencies relative to other currencies could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that benefit to a greater degree from a specific exchange rate move and can, as a result, deliver services at a lower cost or receive greater revenues from such a transaction. Although we use various derivative financial instruments to help protect against adverse foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate such risks, and, as a result, changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results.  For example, the strengthening of the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies might adversely affect the value of our products and services when translated to U.S. dollar, even if the value of such products and services has not changed in their original currency.. Changes in interest rates and deterioration of credit quality could reduce the value of our cash balances and investment portfolios and adversely affect our financial condition or results.. Operating funds available for corporate use were $1,285 million at December 31, 2017 and are reported in Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments. Funds held on behalf of clients and insurers were $3.7 billion at December 31, 2017 and are reported in Fiduciary assets. We also carry an investment portfolio of other long-term investments. As of December 31, 2017, these long-term investments had a carrying value of $57 million.  Adverse changes in interest rates, performance, and counterparty credit quality, including default, could reduce the value of these funds and investments, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results. We may experience reduced investment earnings on our cash and short-term investments of fiduciary and operating funds if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels, or if negative yields on deposits or investments are experienced, as we have experienced in Japan and certain jurisdictions in the European Union. On the other hand, higher interest rates could result in a higher discount rate used by investors to value our future cash flows thereby resulting in a lower valuation of the Company. In addition, during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial losses for us as a result of our cash or other investments with such counterparties, as well as substantial losses for our clients and the insurance companies with which we work.. Our pension obligations and value of our pension assets could adversely affect our shareholders' equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity.. To the extent that the pension obligations associated with our pension plans continue to exceed the fair value of the assets supporting those obligations, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, lower interest rates and investment returns could result in the present value of plan liabilities increasing at a greater rate than the value of plan assets, resulting in higher unfunded positions in our pension plans.  In addition, the periodic revision of pension assumptions or variances of actual results from our assumptions can materially change the present value of expected future benefits, and therefore the funded status of the plans and resulting net periodic pension expense. As a result, we may experience future changes in the funded status of our plans that could require us to make additional cash contributions beyond those that have been estimated and which could adversely affect shareholders' equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity.. Our worldwide pension plans are significant, and therefore our pension contributions and expense are sensitive to various market and demographic factors. These factors include equity and bond market returns, fair value of pension assets, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, foreign exchange rates, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions, potential regulatory and legal changes and counterparty exposure from various investments and derivative contracts, including annuities. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant changes to our financial position and results of operations from year to year. In addition, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"U.S. GAAP\").. 10. We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $6.0 billion. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility by reducing our ability to use cash from operations for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to shareholders, share repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We also are subject to risks that, at the time any of our outstanding debt matures, we will not be able to retire or refinance the debt on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.. As of December 31, 2017, we had two committed credit facilities outstanding. Each of these facilities is intended to support our commercial paper obligations and our general working capital needs. In addition, each of these facilities included customary representations, warranties and covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain specified ratios of adjusted consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense and consolidated debt to adjusted consolidated EBITDA, tested quarterly.. A substantial portion of our outstanding debt, including certain intercompany debt obligations, contains financial and other covenants. The terms of these covenants may limit our ability to obtain, or increase the costs of obtaining, additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements. This in turn may have the impact of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, thereby placing us at a relative disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness, or fewer or less onerous covenants associated with such indebtedness, and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions.. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions or refinance any of our debt, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. A decline in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper may adversely affect our borrowing costs, access to capital, and financial flexibility.. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper could increase our borrowing costs, reduce or eliminate our access to capital, reduce our financial flexibility, and limit our ability to implement on corporate strategy. Our senior debt ratings at December 31, 2017 were A- with a stable outlook (Standard & Poor's, or \"S&P\"), BBB+ with a stable outlook (Fitch, Inc., or \"Fitch\"), and Baa2 with a stable outlook (Moody's Investor Services, or \"Moody's\"). Our commercial paper ratings were A-2 (S&P), F-2 (Fitch) and P-2 (Moody's).. Real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect any trading market for, or trading value of, our securities.  Such changes could result from any number of factors, including the modification by a credit rating agency of the criteria or methodology it applies to particular issuers, a change in the agency's view of us or our industry, or as a consequence of actions we take to implement our corporate strategies.  A change in our credit rating could adversely limit our access to capital and our competitive position.. The benefits of our Redomestication may not be realized or may be offset in whole or in part by factors that we do not control.. In 2012, we reincorporated in the U.K. and moved our corporate headquarters to London (the \"Redomestication\"). As a result of this reorganization of our corporate structure, Aon plc became the publicly-held parent company of the Aon group.  There can be no assurance that all of the goals of our Redomestication will be achievable.. Our effective tax rates and the benefits from our Redomestication are subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our ability to control, such as changes in the rate of economic growth in the U.K., the U.S. and other countries, the financial performance of our business in various jurisdictions, currency exchange rate fluctuations (especially as between the British pound and the U.S. dollar), and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies of the U.K. or the U.S., including changes in interest rates. The impact of these factors, individually and in the aggregate, is difficult to predict, in part because the occurrence of the events or circumstances may be interrelated and the impact to us of the occurrence of any one of these events or circumstances could be compounded or, alternatively, reduced, offset, or more than offset, by the occurrence of one or more of the other events or circumstances described in such factors.. On September 4, 2013, we received from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") an executed Closing Agreement pursuant to which the Company and the IRS agreed that the merger (pursuant to which the Redomestication occurred) did not cause Aon plc to be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for federal tax purposes. This agreement substantially reduced the risk that actions taken to date might cause Aon plc to be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for federal tax purposes under the current tax statute and regulations. However, the U.S. Congress, the IRS, the U.K. Parliament or U.K. tax authorities may enact new statutory or regulatory provisions that could adversely affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation, or otherwise adversely affect our anticipated global tax position. Retroactive statutory or regulatory actions have occurred in the past, and there can be no assurance that any. 11. such provisions, if enacted or promulgated, would not have retroactive application to us, the Redomestication or any subsequent actions. Our net income and cash flow would be reduced if we were to be subject to U.S. corporate income tax as a domestic corporation. In addition, any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between the U.K and other jurisdictions (including the U.S.), or any new statutory or regulatory provisions that might limit our ability to take advantage of any such treaties, could subject us to increased taxation.. U.S. federal income tax reform could create uncertainty and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\"), was signed into law, significantly changing the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. These changes include, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate, subjecting certain future foreign subsidiary earnings, whether or not distributed, to U.S. tax under a Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income provision, imposing a new alternative \"Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax\" on U.S. corporations that limits deductions for certain amounts payable to foreign affiliates, imposing significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest payable to related and unrelated lenders, further limiting deductible executive compensation, and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries through the end of 2017. We continue to analyze how the Tax Reform Act may  impact our results of operations.  The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Reform Act. The Company has recognized the provisional tax impacts related to deemed repatriated earnings and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and included these amounts in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The ultimate impact may differ from these provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, additional analysis of the law, changes in interpretations and assumptions the Company has made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions the Company may take as a result of the Tax Reform Act. This continued analysis and resulting uncertainty, along with many of the changes effected pursuant to the Tax Reform Act, may have an adverse or volatile effect on our tax rate in fiscal years 2018 and beyond, thereby affecting our results of operations.. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors, which could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.K., U.S. and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, such as the U.S. Tax Reform Act detailed above, our global mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effect of complying with transfer pricing requirements under laws of many different countries on our revenues and costs, the consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments, and the portion of the income of non-U.S. subsidiaries that may be subject to U.S. tax whether or not distributed to U.S. shareholders. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities.. We believe that our Redomestication and related transactions should support our ability to maintain a competitive global tax rate because the U.K. has implemented a dividend exemption system that generally does not subject non-U.K. earnings to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. in the form of dividends from non-U.K. subsidiaries. This should allow us to optimize our capital allocation through global funding structures. However, we cannot provide any assurances as to what our tax rate will be in any period because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as changes in U.S. and other tax laws, treaties and regulations. Our actual global tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of the U.K., the U.S. and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our tax rate.. We also could be subject to future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our global tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer.. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including,. 12. but not limited to, those relating to revenue recognition, restructuring, pensions, recoverability of assets including customer receivables, valuation of goodwill and intangibles, contingencies, share-based payments, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. These assumptions and estimates involve the exercise of judgment and discretion, which may evolve over time in light of operational experience, regulatory direction, developments in accounting principles, and other factors. Actual results could differ from these estimates, or changes in assumptions, estimates, policies, or developments in the business may change our initial estimates, which could materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Financial Position, Shareholders' Equity and Cash Flows.. We may be required to record goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges, which could result in a significant charge to earnings.. Under U.S. GAAP, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our share price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We may experience unforeseen circumstances that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and other long-lied intangible assets. Future goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges could materially impact our consolidated financial statements.. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.. The Company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries.  We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt, paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses.  Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payment to us.  Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We are subject to errors and omissions claims against us as well as other contingencies and legal proceedings, some of which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of a business line or the Company as a whole.. We assist our clients with various matters, including placing insurance and reinsurance coverage and handling related claims, consulting on various human resources matters, providing actuarial services, investment consulting, and asset management services.  E&O claims against us may allege our potential liability for damages arising from these services. E&O claims could include, for example, the failure of our employees or sub-agents, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage correctly or notify carriers of claims on behalf of clients or to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured, or the failure to give error-free advice in our consulting business. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. In addition, we are subject to other types of claims, litigation and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, which along with E&O claims, may seek damages, including punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, earnings, and cash flows. In addition to potential liability for monetary damages, such claims or outcomes could harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.. We have historically purchased, and intend to continue to purchase, insurance to cover E&O claims and other insurance to provide protection against certain losses that arise in such matters. However, we have exhausted or materially depleted our coverage under some of the policies that protect us for certain years and, consequently, are self-insured or materially self-insured for some historical claims. Accruals for these exposures, and related insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable. These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as developments warrant, and may also be adversely affected by disputes we may have with our insurers over coverage. Amounts related to settlement provisions are recorded in Other general expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Discussion of some of these claims, lawsuits, and proceedings are contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. In addition, we provide a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to our customers and others. The maximum potential amount of future payments represents the notional amounts that could become payable under the guarantees and indemnifications. 13. if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties, without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or other methods. Any anticipated payment amounts under guarantees and indemnifications that are deemed to be probable and reasonably estimable are included in our consolidated financial statements. These amounts may not represent actual future payments, if any, for these guarantees and indemnifications.. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, proceedings, guarantees and indemnifications cannot be ascertained, and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters.. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or increase competition.. Our businesses are subject to extensive legal and regulatory oversight throughout the world, including the U.K. Companies Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the FCA, the U.S. securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, and a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing, among other things, licensing, data privacy and protection, trade restriction and export controls, anti-money laundering, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, anti-competition, anti-corruption, currency, reserves, government contracting and the amount of local investment with respect to our operations in certain countries.  This legal and regulatory oversight could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by: increasing the costs of legal and regulatory compliance; limiting or restricting the products or services we sell, the markets we serve or enter, the methods by which we sell our products and services, the prices we can charge for our services, or the form of compensation we can accept from our clients, carriers and third parties; or by subjecting our businesses to the possibility of legal and regulatory actions or proceedings.. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations adding to our cost of doing business.  In addition, many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing the complexity and cost of compliance.  In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us adequate assurance that we are operating our business in a compliant manner with all required licenses or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, certain laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act (\"FATCA\") in the U.S., and the Bribery Act of 2010 (\"U.K. Bribery Act\") in the U.K., impact our operations outside of the legislating country by imposing requirements for the conduct of overseas operations, and in several cases, requiring compliance by foreign subsidiaries.. In addition to the complexity of the laws and regulations themselves, the development of new laws and regulations or changes in application or interpretation of current laws and regulations also increases our legal and regulatory compliance complexity. Additionally, our acquisitions of new businesses and our continued operational changes and entry into new jurisdictions and new service offerings increases our legal and regulatory compliance complexity, as well as the type of governmental oversight to which we may be subject.  Changes in laws and regulations could mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions, could impose additional licensure requirements or costs to our operations and services, or even cause us to cease offering certain services or solutions. Furthermore, as we enter new jurisdictions or businesses and further develop and expand our services, we may become subject to additional types of laws and policies and governmental oversight and supervision, such as those applicable to the financial lending or other service institutions.. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may have a license revoked or be unable to obtain new licenses and therefore be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on or developing some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our business can further develop or continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past.. In addition, new regulatory or industry developments could result in changes that adversely affect us. These developments include:. • changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory actions or changes;. • the establishment of programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other alternative types of coverage;. • changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution, and defined benefit plans, and investment consulting and asset management;. • additional regulations promulgated by the FCA in the U.K., or other regulatory bodies in jurisdictions in which we operate; or. 14. • additional requirements respecting data privacy, data security, and data usage in jurisdictions in which we operate that may increase our costs of compliance and potentially reduce the manner in which data can be used by us to develop or further our product offerings.. Changes in the regulatory scheme, or even changes in how existing regulations are interpreted, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations by limiting revenue streams or increasing costs of compliance. For instance, The General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), effective in May 2018, creates a range of new compliance obligations, increases financial penalties for non-compliance, and extends the scope of the European Union data protection law to all companies processing data of European Union residents, wherever the company's location. Complying with the GDPR will cause us to incur substantial operational costs and may require us to change our business practices.. Our business' regulatory oversight generally also includes licensing of insurance brokers and agents, managing general agency or general underwriting operations, and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance broking in the jurisdictions in which we operate depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Also, we can be affected indirectly by the governmental regulation and supervision of insurance companies. For instance, if we are providing or managing general underwriting services for an insurer, we may have to contend with regulations affecting our client.. Services provided in our Health Solutions and Retirement Solutions revenue line are also the subject of ever-evolving government regulation, either because the services provided to our clients are regulated directly or because third parties upon whom we rely to provide services to clients are regulated, thereby indirectly affecting the manner in which we provide services to those clients.  In particular, our health care exchange business depends upon the private sector of the U.S. insurance system and its role in financing health care delivery, and insurance carriers' use of, and payment of, commissions to, agents, brokers and other organizations to market and sell individual and family health insurance products and plans. Uncertainty regarding, or any changes to, state or federal law, or the interpretation of such law by applicable regulatory agencies, including the effects of health care reform by the U.S. government, could delay client adoption of our healthcare exchanges, impair our ability to retain clients who have adopted our healthcare exchanges, or cause insurance carriers to alter or eliminate the products and plans that they offer or attempt to move members into new products or plans for which we receive lower commissions.  In addition, changes in laws, government regulations or the way those regulations are interpreted in the jurisdictions in which we operate could affect the viability, value, use, or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans (such as medical), defined contribution plans (such as 401(k)), or defined benefit plans (such as pension), may adversely affect the demand for, or profitability of, our services.. If we violate the laws and regulation to which we are subject, we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions and could be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries.  There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these laws and regulations, causing an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. In addition, our businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations, increased government involvement, or enforcement actions. For instance, increased scrutiny by competition authorities may increase our costs of doing business or force us to change the way we conduct business or refrain from or otherwise alter the way we engage in certain activities. Additionally, we operate in many different business lines, which may occasionally intersect with each other, such as placing both insurance and reinsurance or providing both investment consultancy and fiduciary management services.   If we fail to control possible resulting conflicts of interest, we could be subject to civil litigation, fines, penalties or criminal sanctions and could be prohibited from participating in one or more lines of business.  As regulators and other government agencies continue to examine our operations, there is no assurance that consent orders or other enforcement actions will not be issued by them in the future. These and other initiatives from national, state, and local officials may subject us to judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to be required to restructure or divest operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, higher operational costs, business disruption, or loss, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition, or operating results.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our reputation, ability to compete effectively, and financial condition.. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, employees, clients, strategic partners, and others. However, the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.  Further, effective trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services or competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our related intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively.. 15. In addition, to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings.  Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use or offer certain technologies, products or other intellectual property. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We have less flexibility as a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales with respect to certain aspects of capital management.. English law imposes additional restrictions on certain corporate actions.  For example, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot, or issue, securities with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. The current authorization is effective until the earlier of our next annual general meeting or August 31, 2018.  This authorization will need to be renewed by our shareholders periodically and we intend to renew this authorization at each annual general meeting.. English law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the articles of association, or shareholders in general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. The current exclusion is effective until the earlier of our next annual general meeting or August 31, 2018.  This exclusion would need to be renewed by our shareholders periodically and we intend to renew this exclusion at each annual general meeting.. English law also requires us to have available \"distributable reserves\" to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders.  Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the U.K. parent company or other actions.  As of December 31, 2017, we had distributable reserves in excess of $1.2 billion.  While it is our intention to maintain a sufficient level of distributable reserves in order to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and make share repurchases, there is no assurance that the parent company level will continue to generate sufficient earnings in order to maintain the necessary level of distributable reserves to do so.. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of \"off market purchases\" without the prior approval of our shareholders. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. Our shares are traded on the NYSE, which is not a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. Consequently, any repurchase of our shares is currently considered an \"off market purchase.\"  The current authorization expires on June 17, 2020.  Renewal of this authorization will be sought periodically.. The enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be more difficult.. Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for a U.S. company. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court.. We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. in order to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.. There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the U.S. federal securities laws. The English courts will, however, treat any amount payable by us under U.S. judgment as a debt and new proceedings can be commenced in the English courts to enforce this debt against us. The following criteria must be satisfied in order for the English court to enforce the debt created by the U.S. judgment:. • the U.S. court having had jurisdiction over the original proceedings according to English conflicts of laws principles and rules of English private international law at the time when proceedings were initiated;. • the U.S. proceedings not having been brought in breach of a jurisdiction or arbitration clause except with the agreement of the defendant or the defendant's subsequent submission to the jurisdiction of the court;. • the U.S. judgment being final and conclusive on the merits in the sense of being final and unalterable in the court which pronounced it and being for a definite sum of money;. 16. • the recognition or enforcement, as the case may be, of the U.S. judgment not contravening English public policy in a sufficiently significant way or contravening the Human Rights Act 1998 (or any subordinate legislation made thereunder, to the extent applicable);. • the U.S. judgment not being for a sum payable in respect of taxes, or other charges of a like nature, or in respect of a penalty or fine, or otherwise based on a U.S. law that an English court considers to be a penal or revenue law;. • the U.S. judgment not having been arrived at by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damages sustained, and not otherwise being a judgment contrary to section 5 of the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 or is a judgment based on measures designated by the Secretary of State under Section 1 of that Act;. • the U.S. judgment not having been obtained by fraud or in breach of English principles of natural justice;. • the U.S. judgment not being a judgment on a matter previously determined by an English court, or another court whose judgment is entitled to recognition (or enforcement as the case may be) in England, in proceedings involving the same parties which conflicts with an earlier judgment of such court;. • the party seeking enforcement (being a party who is not ordinarily resident in some part of the U.K. or resident in an EU Member State) providing security for costs, if ordered to do so by the English courts; and. • the English enforcement proceedings being commenced within the relevant limitation period.. If an English court gives judgment for the sum payable under a U.S. judgment, the English judgment will be enforceable by methods generally available for this purpose. These methods generally permit the English court discretion to prescribe the manner of enforcement. Also note that, in any enforcement proceedings, the judgment debtor may raise any counterclaim that could have been brought if the action had been originally brought in England unless the subject of the counterclaim was in issue and denied in the U.S. proceedings.. Operational Risks. The economic and political conditions of the countries and regions in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity, and prospects for growth.. Our operations in countries undergoing political change or experiencing economic instability are subject to uncertainty and risks that could materially adversely affect our business.  These risks include, particularly in emerging markets, the possibility we would be subject to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments and economies, and potential governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services, and currency.. Furthermore, the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union (\"Brexit\") has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the European Union as they negotiate the terms of the withdrawal.  As the U.K. and European Union negotiate these terms, we are uncertain about the agreements they will reach on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws, and employment laws.  Our publicly traded parent is incorporated in the U.K. and we have significant operations and a substantial workforce therein and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.'s membership in the European Union.  The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations.   Additionally, there is also a risk that other countries may decide to leave the European Union. The uncertainty surrounding Brexit not only potentially affects our business in the U.K. and the European Union, but may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing or replacing the Euro could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reducing the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency such as our multicurrency U.S. credit facility. We also deposit some of our cash, including cash held in a fiduciary capacity, with certain European financial institutions. While we continuously monitor and manage exposures associated with those deposits, to the extent the uncertainty surrounding economic stability in Europe and the future viability of the Euro suddenly and adversely impacts those financial institutions, some or all of those cash deposits could be at risk.. We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our restructuring plan and other operational improvement initiatives.. In 2017, we initiated a global restructuring plan (the \"Restructuring Plan\") in connection with the sale of the Divested Business. The Restructuring Plan is intended to streamline operations across the organization and deliver greater efficiency, insight and connectivity.  We expect these restructuring activities and related expenses to affect continuing operations through 2019, including an estimated 4,200 to 4,800 role eliminations.  The Restructuring Plan is expected to result in cumulative costs of approximately $1,025 million through the end of the Restructuring Plan, consisting of approximately $450 million in employee termination costs, $130 million in IT rationalization costs, $85 million in real estate realization costs, $50 million in asset impairment costs and $310 million in other costs associated with the restructuring.   Included in the estimated $1,025 million is $50 million of estimated non-cash charges.. 17. We estimate that our annualized savings from the Restructuring Plan and other operational improvement initiatives will be approximately $450 million by the end of 2019. Actual total costs, savings and timing may vary from these estimates due to changes in the scope or assumptions underlying the Restructuring Plan and other operational improvement initiatives.  We therefore cannot assure that we will achieve the targeted savings. Unanticipated costs or unrealized savings in connection with the Restructuring Plan and other operational improvement initiatives could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.. Our success depends on our ability to retain and attract experienced and qualified personnel, including our senior management team and other professional personnel.. We depend, in material part, upon the members of our senior management team who possess extensive knowledge and a deep understanding of our business and our strategy, as well as the colleagues who are critical to developing and retaining client relationships. The unexpected loss of services of any of these senior leaders could have a disruptive effect adversely impacting our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Competition for experienced professional personnel is intense, and we are constantly working to retain and attract these professionals. If we cannot successfully do so, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. While we have plans for key management succession and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our senior management team and critical colleagues, if our succession plans and retention programs do not operate effectively, our business could be adversely affected.. Our global operations expose us to various international risks that could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are conducted globally. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic, and market risks associated with operating in, and sourcing from, foreign countries, including:. • difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices, including due to unexpected wage inflation or job turnover, and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal and compliance costs and risks associated with multiple international locations;. • hyperinflation in certain foreign countries;. • conflicting regulations in the countries in which we do business;. • imposition of investment requirements or other restrictions by foreign governments;. • longer payment cycles;. • greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • insufficient demand for our services in foreign jurisdictions;. • our ability to execute effective and efficient cross-border sourcing of services on behalf of our clients;. • the reliance on or use of third parties to perform services on behalf of the Company;. • disparate tax regimes;. • restrictions on the import and export of technologies; and. • trade barriers.. The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could result in declines in business and increases in claims that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, tornadoes, climate events or weather patterns, and pandemic health events, as well as man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism, military actions and cyber-terrorism. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man-made disaster could trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business and increased claims from those areas. They could also result in reduced underwriting capacity, making it more difficult for our professionals to place business. Disasters also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations.. A natural or man-made disaster also could disrupt the operations of our counterparties or result in increased prices for the products and services they provide to us. In addition, a disaster could adversely affect the value of the assets in our investment portfolio. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster could increase the incidence or severity of E&O claims against us.. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our personnel, offices and technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. Should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breaches, power loss, telecommunications failure, or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of existing, new or upgraded computer. 18. systems, telecommunications, and other related systems and operations. In events like these, while our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems provide us with some degree of flexibility, we still can experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations. We could potentially lose access to key executives, personnel, or client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. A disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships, or legal liability.. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption due to a breach in the security of our information technology systems could have a negative impact on our reputation, operations, sales and operating results.. We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted, and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some of which are outsourced to third parties. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, security breaches, unauthorized access or improper actions by insiders or employees.  We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries through increasingly sophisticated methods of attack.  Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures.  We regularly experience attacks to our systems and networks and have from time to time experienced cybersecurity breaches, such as computer viruses, unauthorized parties gaining access to our information technology systems, and similar incidents, which to date have not had a material impact on our business.  If we are unable to efficiently and effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access. While we select our third party vendors carefully, problems with the information technology systems of those vendors, including breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks, and security breaches at a vendor could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business.  Additionally, we are an acquisitive organization and the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk as we might not adequately identify weaknesses in the targets' information systems, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to attack. These types of incidents affecting us or our third-party vendors could result in intellectual property or other confidential information being lost or stolen, including client, employee, or company data.  In addition, we may not be able to detect breaches in our information technology systems or assess the severity or impact of a breach in a timely manner.. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network security and disruptions, but a security breach or a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients, adversely impact our operations, sales and operating results, and require us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. Additionally, in order to maintain the level of security, service, and reliability that our clients require, we may be required to make significant additional investments in our information technology system.. Improper disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary data could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability, or harm to our reputation.. One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our employees' and clients' confidential and proprietary information, including confidential information about our clients' employees' compensation, medical information, and other personally identifiable information. We maintain policies, procedures, and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error, employee or vendor malfeasance, or cyber-attacks that could result in improper access to or disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary information. Such access or disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws and regulations that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs, loss of revenue, and loss of clients. The release of confidential information as a result of a security breach could also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business.. In many jurisdictions, including in the European Union and the U.S., we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of this information.  These laws and regulations are frequently changing and are becoming increasingly complex and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services both in terms of substance and in terms of enforceability. This makes compliance challenging and expensive. Additionally, certain jurisdictions' regulations include notice provisions that may require us to inform affected clients or employees in the event of a breach of confidential information before we fully understand or appreciate the extent of the breach. These notice provisions. 19. present operational challenges and related risk.  In particular, the European Union's GDPR will go into effect in May 2018.  Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the GDPR's effective date, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors, such as a lack of vendor cooperation. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and additional costs in connection therewith. We may also experience difficulty retaining or obtaining new European or multi-national customers due to the compliance cost, potential risk exposure, and difficulty in negotiating the allocation of risk related to the handling of data. Compliance with the GDPR may also cause distraction from other aspects of our business. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impair our reputation in the marketplace. Further, regulatory initiatives in the area of data protection are more frequently including provisions allowing authorities to impose substantial fines and penalties, and therefore, failure to comply could also have a significant financial impact.. Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to effectively apply technology in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies through the effective application of technology and related tools. Conversely, investments in innovative product offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover their investments.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete client engagements. For example, we have invested significantly in the development of our proprietary databases, repositories of global insurance and reinsurance placement information, which we use to drive results for our clients in the insurance and reinsurance placement process. Our competitors are developing competing databases, and their success in this space may impact our ability to differentiate our services to our clients through the use of unique technological solutions. Innovations in software, cloud computing or other technologies that alter how our services are delivered could significantly undermine our investment in this business if we are slow or unable to take advantage of these developments.. We are continually developing and investing in innovative and novel service offerings that we believe will address needs that we identify in the markets. Nevertheless, for those efforts to produce meaningful value, we are reliant on a number of other factors, some of which our outside of our control. For example, our Health Solutions revenue line has invested substantial time and resources in launching health care exchanges under the belief that these exchanges will serve a useful role in helping corporations and individuals in the U.S. manage their growing health care expenses. In order for these exchanges to be successful, health care insurers and corporate and individual participants have to deem them suitable, and whether those parties will find them suitable will be subject to their own particular circumstances.. We rely on third parties to perform key functions of our business operations enabling our provision of services to our clients. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.. We rely on third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data, and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, data processing, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business.  These third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokerage and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, benefits administrators, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers and providers of human resource, among others.  As we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions, actions, or inactions may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay and expense.  A failure by third parties to comply with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements, in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, could result in economic and reputational harm to us.  In addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business, and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information, could cause harm to our reputation.  An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties, or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients and/or employees, damage to our reputation, and harm to our business.. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the handling of client funds.. Certain of our businesses collect premiums from insureds and remits the premiums to the respective insurers. We also collect claims or refunds from insurers on behalf of insureds, which are then remitted to the insureds. Consequently, at any given time, we may be holding and managing funds of our clients. This function creates a risk of loss arising from, among other things, fraud by employees or third parties, execution of unauthorized transactions, errors relating to transaction processing, or other. 20. cybersecurity events or security breaches. We are also potentially at risk in the event the financial institution in which we hold these funds suffers any kind of insolvency or liquidity event. The occurrence of any of these types of events in connection with this function could cause us financial loss and reputational harm.. In connection with the implementation of our corporate strategies, we face risks associated with the acquisition or disposition of businesses, the entry into new lines of business, the integration of acquired businesses, and the growth and development of these businesses.. In pursuing our corporate strategy, we often acquire other businesses or dispose of or exit businesses we currently own. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition targets, negotiate transactions on favorable terms, complete transactions and, in the case of acquisitions, successfully integrate them into our existing businesses. If a proposed transaction is not consummated, the time and resources spent pursuing it could adversely result in missed opportunities to locate and acquire other businesses. If acquisitions are made, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, including, but not limited to, revenue growth, operational efficiencies, or expected synergies. If we dispose of or otherwise exit certain businesses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain disposition related charges, or that we will be able to reduce overhead related to the divested assets.. From time to time, either through acquisitions or internal development, we enter new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. These new lines of business or new products and services present the Company with additional risks, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  Such risks include the investment of significant time and resources; the possibility that these efforts will be not be successful; the possibility that the marketplace does not accept our products or services or that we are unable to retain clients that adopt our new products or services; and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these efforts. In addition, many of the businesses that we acquire and develop will likely have significantly smaller scales of operations prior to the implementation of our growth strategy. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of these businesses, including improving, refining, or revising our systems and operational practices, and enlarging the scale and scope of the businesses, our business may be adversely affected. Other risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, integrating the acquired business into our systems and culture, recruiting professionals, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. External factors, such as compliance with new or revised regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business.  Failure to manage these risks in the acquisition or development of new businesses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of our Benefits Administration and HR Business Process Outsourcing business.. On February 9, 2017, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Tempo Acquisition, LLC to sell our Divested Business to the Buyer, an entity controlled by affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. On May 1, 2017, the transaction was consummated and the Buyer purchased all of the outstanding equity interests in each of the Divested Business's subsidiaries, plus certain related assets, for a purchase price of (i) $4.3 billion in cash paid at closing, subject to customary adjustments set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and (ii) deferred consideration of up to $500 million, plus the assumption of certain liabilities.  Cash proceeds from the sale, before taxes and after customary adjustments as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, were $4.2 billion.. This transaction carries inherent risks, including the risk that Aon will not earn the $500 million of additional consideration or otherwise realize the intended value of the transaction, as well as risks connected with separating the Divested Business from Aon. Because the Divested Business represented 19% of our gross revenues for the fiscal year 2016, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, or may not be accretive to adjusted earnings per share as anticipated, if we fail to effectively reduce our overhead costs to reflect the reduced scale of operations or fail to grow our other business as expected. Additionally, the separation of the Divested Businesses from the rest of Aon's business requires significant resources, which may disrupt operations or divert management's attention from Aon's day-today operations and efforts to grow our other businesses.  We are party to a transition services agreement with the Buyer under which we provide certain services to the Buyer and the Buyer provides certain systems or services to us.  There are risks associated with this transition services agreement, particularly as we transition off of the Buyer's systems and services and initiate our own new systems and processes, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Furthermore, we have entered into ongoing commercial arrangements with the Buyer.  If we do not realize the intended benefits of these arrangements, it could affect our results of operations or adversely affect our relationship with clients, partners, colleagues and other third parties.  Additionally, if the Divested Business does not deliver the level of service to which our clients and partners are accustomed, it could adversely affect our relationships with such third parties.. 21. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the mode of compensation in the insurance industry.. In the past, the Attorney General of the State of New York brought charges against members of the insurance brokerage community. These actions have created uncertainty concerning longstanding methods of compensating insurance brokers. Given that the insurance brokerage industry has faced scrutiny from regulators in the past over its compensation practices, it is possible that regulators may choose to revisit the same or other practices in the future. If they do so, compliance with new regulations along with any sanctions that might be imposed for past practices deemed improper could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and inflict significant reputational harm on our business.. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares. Transfers of the Class A Ordinary Shares may be subject to stamp duty or SDRT in the U.K., which would increase the cost of dealing in the Class A Ordinary Shares.. Stamp duty reserve taxes (\"SDRT\") are imposed in the U.K. on certain transfers of chargeable securities (which include shares in companies incorporated in the U.K.) at a rate of 0.5 percent of the consideration paid for the transfer. Certain transfers of shares to depositaries or into clearance systems are charged at a higher rate of 1.5 percent.. Our Class A Ordinary Shares are eligible to be held in book entry form through the facilities of Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\"). Transfers of shares held in book entry form through DTC will not attract a charge to stamp duty or SDRT in the U.K. A transfer of the shares from within the DTC system out of DTC and any subsequent transfers that occur entirely outside the DTC system will attract a charge to stamp duty at a rate of 0.5 percent of any consideration, which is payable by the transferee of the shares. Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped by Her Majesty's Revenues and Customs (\"HMRC\")) before the transfer can be registered in the books of Aon. If those shares are redeposited into DTC, the redeposit will attract stamp duty or SDRT at a rate of 1.5 percent of the value of the shares.. We have put in place arrangements to require that shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of the shares has first delivered the shares to a depository specified by us so that SDRT may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depository. Before the transfer can be registered in our books, the transferor will also be required to put in the depository funds to settle the resultant liability to SDRT, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5 percent of the value of the shares.. Following the decision of the First Tier Tribunal (Tax Chamber) in HSBC Holdings plc, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation v HMRC 2012 UKFTT 163 (TC) and the announcement by HMRC that it will not seek to appeal the decision, HMRC is no longer enforcing the charge to SDRT on the issue of shares into either EU or non-EU depository receipt or clearance systems.. If the Class A Ordinary Shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearing within the facilities of DTC, then transactions in our securities may be disrupted.. The facilities of DTC are a widely-used mechanism that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the DTC system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. We believe that prior to the Redomestication, approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Aon Corporation were held within the DTC system. The Class A Ordinary Shares of Aon plc are, at present, eligible for deposit and clearing within the DTC system. In connection with the closing of the Redomestication, we entered into arrangements with DTC whereby we agreed to indemnify DTC for any stamp duty and/or SDRT that may be assessed upon it as a result of its service as a depository and clearing agency for our Class A Ordinary Shares. In addition, we have obtained a ruling from HMRC in respect of the stamp duty and SDRT consequences of the reorganization, and SDRT has been paid in accordance with the terms of this ruling in respect of the deposit of Class A Ordinary Shares with the initial depository. DTC will generally have discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for the Class A Ordinary Shares. If DTC determines at any time that the Class A Ordinary Shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe the Class A Ordinary Shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange or inclusion in the S&P 500 and trading in the Class A Ordinary Shares would be disrupted. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve our listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Class A Ordinary Shares."
