[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. All currency figures expressed herein are expressed in thousands, except share or per share amounts.. The Company's business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders and could cause the value of the Company's capital stock to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S RELATIONSHIP WITH ITS MANAGER. The Company does not have a policy that expressly prohibits its directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by the Company.. The Company does not have a policy that expressly prohibits its directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by the Company. However, the Company's code of business conduct and ethics contains a conflicts of interest policy that prohibits its directors and executive officers, as well as personnel of the Manager or Apollo who provide services to the Company, from engaging in any transaction that involves an actual conflict of interest with the Company without the approval of a majority of the Company's independent directors. In addition, the Management Agreement does not prevent the Manager and its affiliates from engaging in additional management or investment opportunities, some of which could compete with the Company.. There are various conflicts of interest in the Company's relationship with Apollo which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. The ability of the Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time the Manager spends managing the Company's business.. The Company is subject to conflicts of interest arising out of its relationship with Apollo, including the Manager. The Company has and may enter into transactions with Apollo and other Apollo vehicles. In particular, the Company has invested in and may in the future invest in, or acquire, certain of its investments through joint ventures with Apollo or its affiliates or purchase assets from, sell assets to or arrange financing from or provide financing to other Apollo vehicles. Any such transactions require approval by a majority of the Company's independent directors. In certain instances the Company may invest alongside other Apollo vehicles in different parts of the capital structure of the same issuer. Depending on the size and nature of such investment, such transactions may require approval by a majority of the Company's independent directors. There can be no assurance that any procedural protections will be sufficient to assure that these transactions will be made on terms that will be at least as favorable to the Company as those that would have been obtained in an arm's length transaction.. In addition to the Company, an affiliate of the Manager manages other investment vehicles whose core investment strategies focus on one or more of the Company's target asset classes. To the extent such other Apollo vehicles or other vehicles that may be organized in the future seek to acquire or divest of the same target assets as the Company, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to the Company may be adversely affected and/or reduced.. The Manager and Apollo have an investment allocation policy in place that is intended to ensure that every Apollo vehicle, including the Company, is treated in a manner that, over time, is fair and equitable. According to this policy, investments may be allocated by taking into account factors, including but not limited to, available capital and net asset value of the investment vehicles, suitability of the investment, order size, investment objectives, permitted leverage and available financing, current income expectations, the size, liquidity and duration of the available investment, seniority and other capital structure considerations and the tax implications of an investment. The investment allocation policy may be amended by the Manager and Apollo at any time without the Company's consent.. In addition to the fees payable to the Manager under the Management Agreement, the Manager and its affiliates may benefit from other fees paid to it in respect of the Company's investments. For example, if the Company seeks to securitize its commercial mortgage loans, Apollo and/or the Manager may act as collateral manager. In any of these or other capacities, Apollo and/or the Manager may receive market based fees for their roles, but only if approved by a majority of the Company's independent directors.. Further, certain of the Company's officers and directors, and the officers and other personnel of the Manager, also serve or may serve as officers, directors or partners of other Apollo vehicles. Accordingly, the ability of the Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time the Manager spends managing the Company's business. Further, the officers and other personnel of the Manager may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to other Apollo vehicles. These demands on their time may reduce the time the Company's officers and officers of the Manager may have available to spend managing the Company's business and distract them or slow the rate of investment.. 4. The Manager's and Apollo's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and the Company has agreed to indemnify the Manager against certain liabilities. As a result, the Company could experience poor performance or losses for which the Manager would not be liable.. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of the Company's board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, the Manager, its officers, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by the Manager and any person providing services to the Manager (including Apollo) are not liable to the Company, any subsidiary of the Company, the Company's stockholders or partners or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement. In addition, the Company has agreed to indemnify the Manager, its officers, stockholders, members, managers, directors, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by the Manager and any person providing services to the Manager (including Apollo) with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of the Manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement. As a result, the Company could experience poor performance or losses for which the Manager would not be liable.. Under the Management Agreement, the Manager has a contractually defined duty to us rather than a fiduciary duty.. Under the Management Agreement, the Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with the Company that limits its obligations to the Company to those specifically set forth in the agreement.. The Manager's failure to make investments on favorable terms that satisfy the Company's investment strategy and otherwise generate attractive risk-adjusted returns would materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company's ability to achieve its investment objectives depends on its ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on the management team of the Manager and its ability to identify and to make investments on favorable terms that meet the Company's investment criteria as well as on the Company's access to financing on acceptable terms. The Company's ability to grow is also dependent upon the Manager's ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage new personnel. The Company may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the Company's future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Management Agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to the Manager, may not be as favorable to the Company as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.. The Management Agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to the Manager, may not be as favorable to the Company as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, the Company may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, its rights under the Management Agreement because of its desire to maintain an ongoing relationship with the Manager. The ability of the Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time the Manager spends managing the Company.. The termination of the Management Agreement may be difficult and costly, which may adversely affect the Company's inclination to end its relationship with the Manager.. Termination of the Management Agreement with the Manager without cause is difficult and costly. The Management Agreement provides that, in the absence of cause, it may only be terminated by the Company, upon the vote of at least two thirds of the Company's independent directors based upon: (i) the Manager's unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to the Company, or (ii) a determination that the management fees payable to the Manager are not fair, subject to the Manager's right to prevent termination based on unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two thirds of the Company's independent directors. The Manager will be provided 180 days prior notice of any such termination. Additionally, upon a termination by the Company without cause (or upon a termination by the Manager due to the Company's material breach), the Management Agreement provides that the Company will pay the Manager a termination payment equal to three times the average annual base management fee earned by the Manager during the 24-month period prior to such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter. This provision increases the effective cost to the Company of electing not to renew, or defaulting in its obligations under, the Management Agreement, thereby adversely affecting the Company's inclination to end its relationship with the Manager, even if the Company believes the Manager's performance is not satisfactory.. 5. The current term of the Management Agreement will expire on September 29, 2018 and is automatically renewed for successive one-year terms on each anniversary thereafter; provided, however, that either the Company, under the certain limited circumstances described above that would require the Company to pay the fee described above, or the Manager may terminate the Management Agreement annually upon 180 days prior notice. If the Management Agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage the Company, the Company may not be able to continue to execute its business plan.. The Company does not own the Apollo name, but it may use the name pursuant to a license agreement with Apollo. Use of the name by other parties or the termination of the Company's license agreement may harm its business.. The Company has entered into a license agreement with Apollo pursuant to which it has granted the Company a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name \"Apollo.\" Under this agreement, the Company has a right to use this name for so long as the Manager serves as the Company's manager pursuant to the Management Agreement. Apollo retains the right to continue using the \"Apollo\" name. The Company cannot preclude Apollo from licensing or transferring the ownership of the \"Apollo\" name to third parties, some of whom may compete with the Company. Consequently, the Company would be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of Apollo or others. Furthermore, in the event that the license agreement is terminated, the Company will be required to change its name and cease using the name. Any of these events could disrupt the Company's recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill it may have generated and otherwise harm its business. The license agreement will terminate concurrently with the termination of the Management Agreement.. The manner of determining the base management fee may not provide sufficient incentive to the Manager to maximize risk-adjusted returns on the Company's investment portfolio since it is based on the Company's stockholders' equity (as defined in the Management Agreement) and not on other measures of performance.. The Manager is entitled to receive a base management fee that is based on the amount of the Company's stockholders' equity (as defined in the Management Agreement) at the end of each quarter, regardless of the Company's performance. The Company's stockholders' equity for the purposes of calculating the base management fee is not the same as, and could be greater than, the amount of stockholders' equity shown on the Company's consolidated financial statements. The possibility exists that significant base management fees could be payable to the Manager for a given quarter despite the fact that the Company experienced a net loss during that quarter. The Manager's entitlement to such significant nonperformance-based compensation may not provide sufficient incentive to the Manager to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk-adjusted returns on the Company's investment portfolio, which could, in turn, adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends to its stockholders and the market price of its common stock. Furthermore, the compensation payable to the Manager will increase as a result of future equity offerings, even if the offering is dilutive to existing stockholders.. The Manager manages the Company's investment portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and the Company's board of directors does not approve each investment decision made by the Manager, which may result in the Company making riskier investments.. The Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines and to make most investments without prior approval of the Company's board of directors. Furthermore, the Manager may use complex strategies and transactions entered into by the Manager that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the Company's directors. The Manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for the Company, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect the Company's business operations and results. Decisions made and investments entered into by the Manager may not fully reflect stockholders' best interests.. The Manager may change its investment process, or elect not to follow it, without stockholder consent at any time which may adversely affect the Company's investments.. The Manager may change its investment process without stockholder consent at any time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Manager will follow the investment process in relation to the identification and underwriting of prospective investments. Changes in the Manager's investment process may result in inferior due diligence and underwriting standards, which may affect the Company's investments.. Possession of material, non-public information could prevent the Company from undertaking advantageous transactions; Apollo could decide to establish information barriers.. Apollo generally follows an open architecture approach to information sharing within the larger Apollo organization and does not normally impose information barriers among Apollo and certain of its affiliates. If the Manager were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, Apollo or certain of its affiliates may be prevented from investing in or disposing of investments in such company. Conversely, if Apollo. 6. or certain of its affiliates were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, the Company may be prevented from investing in or disposing of investments in such company. This risk affects the Company more than it does investment vehicles that are not related to Apollo, as Apollo generally does not use information barriers that many firms implement to separate persons who make investment decisions from others who might possess material, non-public information that could influence such decisions. Apollo's approach to these barriers could prevent the Manager's investment professionals from undertaking advantageous investments or dispositions that would be permissible for them otherwise. In addition, Apollo could in the future decide to establish information barriers, particularly as its business expands and diversifies. In such event, Apollo's ability to operate as an integrated platform will be restricted and the Manager's resources may be limited.. The Company is dependent on the Manager and its key personnel for the Company's success and upon their access to Apollo's investment professionals and partners. The Company may not find a suitable replacement for the Manager if the Management Agreement is terminated, or if key personnel leave the employment of the Manager or Apollo or otherwise become unavailable to the Company.. The Company does not have any employees and it relies completely on the Manager to provide it with investment and advisory services. The Company has no separate facilities and is completely reliant on the Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of the Company's operating policies and strategies. The Company depends on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the Manager. The Company benefits from the personnel, relationships and experience of the Manager's executive team and other personnel and investors of Apollo. The executive officers and key personnel of the Manager evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor the Company's investments; therefore, the Company's success will depend on their continued service. The Company also depends, to a significant extent, on the Manager's access to the investment professionals and partners of Apollo and the information and deal flow generated by the Apollo investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities.. The departure of any senior personnel of the Manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or partners of Apollo, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to achieve its investment objectives. In addition, the Company offers no assurance that the Manager will remain its investment manager or that the Company will continue to have access to the Manager's or Apollo's executive officers and other investment professionals. The current term of the Management Agreement with the Manager expires on September 29, 2018, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter absent termination by the Company or the Manager pursuant to the Management Agreement. If the Management Agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage it, the Company may not be able to continue to execute its business plan.. The Company's business may be adversely affected if its reputation, the reputation of the Manager or Apollo, or the reputation of counterparties with whom the Company associates is harmed.. The Company may be harmed by reputational issues and adverse publicity relating to the Company, the Manager or Apollo. Issues could include real or perceived legal or regulatory violations or could be the result of a failure in performance, risk-management, governance, technology or operations, or claims related to employee misconduct, conflict of interests, ethical issues or failure to protect private information, among others. Similarly, market rumors and actual or perceived association with counterparties whose own reputation is under question could harm the Company's business. Such reputational issues may depress the market price of the Company's capital stock or have a negative effect on the Company's ability to attract counterparties for its transactions, or otherwise adversely affect the Company.. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE. The Company operates in a competitive market for investment opportunities and future competition may limit its ability to acquire desirable investments in or dispose of its target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities.. A number of entities compete with the Company to make the types of investments that the Company targets. The Company competes with other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. In addition, other REITs with similar asset acquisition objectives, including others that may be organized in the future, compete with the Company in acquiring assets and obtaining financing. These competitors may be significantly larger than the Company, may have access to greater capital and other resources or may have other advantages. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to the Company. Many of the Company's competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT qualification or maintenance of the Company's exclusion from registration under the 1940 Act. Furthermore, competition for investments in the Company's target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit the Company's ability to. 7. generate desired returns. The Company cannot assure that the competitive pressures it faces will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, the Company may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and the Company can offer no assurance that it will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with its investment objective.. The Company's ability to generate returns for its stockholders through its investment, finance and operating strategies is subject to then existing market conditions, and it may make significant changes to these strategies in response to changing market conditions, which could adversely impact the Company's profitability and risk profile.. The Company's principal business objective is to invest in its target assets in order to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns to its stockholders over the long term, primarily through dividends and secondarily through capital appreciation. The Company intends to achieve this objective by originating, investing in, acquiring, financing and managing a diversified portfolio of its target assets. In the future, the Company may, depending on prevailing market conditions, change its investment guidelines in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. The Company has in the past made and in the future may make such changes at any time with the approval of its board of directors but without the consent of its stockholders. Any future changes in the Company's investment policies could adversely impact the Company's profitability and risk profile.. The Company depends on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt its business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of the Company's common stock and its ability to pay dividends.. The Company's business depends on the communications and information systems of Apollo and other third-party service providers. Any failure or interruption of the systems of Apollo or any other counterparties that the Company relies on could cause delays or other problems in the Company's securities trading activities and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and negatively affect the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders.. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents may adversely affect the Company's business by causing a disruption to the Company's operations, a compromise or corruption of the Company's confidential information, and/or damage to the Company's business relationships, all of which could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of the Company's information resources. These incidents may be an intentional attack or an unintentional event and could involve gaining unauthorized access to the Company's information systems for purposes of misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to the Company's investor relationships. As the Company's reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to its information systems, both internal and those provided by Apollo and third-party service providers. Apollo's processes, procedures and internal controls that are designed to mitigate cybersecurity risks and cyber intrusions do not guarantee that a cyber incident will not occur or that the Company's financial results, operations or confidential information will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. The Company cannot assure its stockholders of its ability to pay dividends in the future.. The Company is generally required to annually distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, for the Company to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Internal Revenue Code\").  The Company currently intends to make quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of its REIT taxable income in each year. Dividends will be declared and paid at the discretion of the Company's board of directors and will depend on the Company's REIT taxable earnings, its financial condition, maintenance of its REIT qualification and such other factors as the board may deem relevant from time to time. The Company's ability to pay dividends may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in its operating results.. The Company cannot predict the unintended consequences and market distortions that may stem from far-ranging governmental intervention in the economic and financial system or from regulatory reform of the oversight of financial markets.. The laws and regulations governing our operations, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, changes in their interpretation, or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain of our business practices, negatively impact our operations, cash flow or financial condition, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business.. 8. The U.S. government, the U.S. Federal Reserve (the \"Federal Reserve\"), the U.S. Treasury, the SEC and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are taking various actions involving intervention in the economic and financial system and regulatory reform of the oversight of financial markets. For example, on July 21, 2010 former President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which has changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry, including the mortgage industry. The current regulatory environment may be impacted by future legislative developments, such as amendments to key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act including provisions setting forth capital and risk retention requirements. For example, on February 3, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order for a broad review of federal regulation of the U.S. financial system by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of the member agencies of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel comprising top U.S. financial regulators.  In addition, in the absence of legislative change, the substance of regulatory supervision may be influenced through the appointment of individuals to the Federal Reserve Board and other financial regulatory bodies. While the outcome is uncertain, the current administration has sought to deregulate the U.S. financial industry, including by altering the Dodd-Frank Act. Measures focused on deregulation of the U.S. financial services industry may, among other things, decrease the restrictions on banks and other financial institutions and allow them to compete with us for investment opportunities that were previously not available to them. Measures focused on deregulation of the U.S. financial services industry may have the effect of increasing competition for our business. Increased competition from banks and other financial institutions in the credit markets could have the effect of reducing credit spreads, which may adversely affect our revenues. The Company cannot predict, the ultimate content, timing, or effect of changes that may result from such review, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of any potential resulting legislation which could have a dramatic impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Manager may be unable to operate the Company within the parameters that allow the Manager to be exempt from regulation as a commodity pool operator, which would subject the Company to additional regulation and compliance requirements, and could materially adversely affect its business and financial condition.. The enforceability of agreements underlying certain derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international statutory and regulatory requirements. Regulations have been promulgated by U.S. and foreign regulators attempting to strengthen oversight of derivative contracts. The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps, including mandatory clearing, execution and reporting requirements, which may result in increased margin requirements and costs. In addition, any investment fund that trades in swaps may be considered a \"commodity pool,\" which would cause its operator to be regulated as a \"commodity pool operator\" (a \"CPO\"). In December 2012, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission issued a no-action letter giving relief to operators of mortgage REITs from any applicable CPO registration requirement. In order for the Manager to qualify for the no-action relief, the Company must, among other non-operation requirements: (1) limit its initial margin and premiums for commodity interests (swaps and exchange-traded derivatives subject to the jurisdiction of the CFTC) to no more than 5% of the fair market value of its total assets; and (2) limit its net income from commodity interests that are not \"qualifying hedging transactions\" to less than 5% of its gross income. The need to operate within these parameters could limit the use of swaps and other commodity interests by the Company below the level that the Manager would otherwise consider optimal or may lead to the registration of the Manager or directors of the Company as commodity pool operators, which will subject the Company to additional regulatory oversight, compliance and costs.. Uncertainty related to the stability of U.S. fiscal and budgetary policy and financial volatility and geopolitical instability outside of the United States may materially adversely affect the Company's business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Financial markets have been and continue to be affected by concerns over uncertainty related to the stability of U.S. fiscal and budgetary policy. This uncertainty, as well as issues from time to time relating to sovereign debt conditions in Europe and lower economic growth forecasts in emerging markets, continue to contribute to the possibility of additional economic slowdowns and/or credit rating downgrades. The impact of U.S. fiscal uncertainty, or any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, or the impact of the crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations or the impact of reduced growth forecasts for emerging markets, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In addition, any further acceleration of these conditions may have an adverse impact on fixed income markets, which in turn could cause the Company's net income to decline or have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.. If the European economic situation were to worsen, or expand to other countries within Europe, the Company may be subject to enhanced risk of counterparty failure as well as related problems arising from a lack of liquidity in the Company's markets. There can be no assurance that governmental or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective.. 9. These developments and the government's credit concerns in general could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact the Company's ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Continued adverse economic conditions may negatively impact the value of the assets in the Company's portfolio, the Company's net income, liquidity and the Company's ability to finance its assets on favorable terms.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire the Company or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of the Company's common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of the Company's common stock. The Company is subject to the \"business combination\" provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between the Company and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the Company's then outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the Company's who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the Company's then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Company and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the Company's board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of the Company's voting stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the Company's voting stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the Company's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, the Company's board of directors has by resolution exempted business combinations (1) between the Company and any other person, provided that such business combination is first approved by the Company's board of directors (including a majority of the Company's directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person) and (2) between the Company and Apollo and its affiliates and associates and persons acting in concert with any of the foregoing. As a result, any person described above may be able to enter into business combinations with the Company that may not be in the best interests of the Company's stockholders, without compliance by the Company with the supermajority vote requirements and other provisions of the statute. There can be no assurance that the Company's board of directors will not amend or revoke this exemption in the future.. The \"control share\" provisions of the MGCL provide that a holder of \"control shares\" of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") has no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by the Company's stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquiror of control shares, the Company's officers and personnel who are also directors. The Company's bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of the Company's stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. The \"unsolicited takeover\" provisions of the MGCL permit the Company's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the Company's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) the Company does not yet have. The Company's charter contains a provision whereby it has elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on its board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. Loss of the Company's exclusion from registration under the 1940 Act would adversely affect the Company.. The Company conducts its operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Because the Company is a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by these subsidiaries that are exempted or otherwise excluded from the definition of \"investment company\" under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other \"investment securities\" (as defined for purposes of the 1940 Act) the Company owns, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of the Company's. 10. total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which the Company refers to as the 40% test. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which the Company may engage through its subsidiaries.. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries qualify to be excluded from registration as investment companies under the 1940 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which is available for an entity \"not engaged in the business of issuing redeemable securities, face-amount certificates of the installment type or periodic payment plan certificates, and who is primarily engaged in … the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.\" This exclusion generally requires that at least 55% of the assets of an entity relying on this exclusion be comprised of what the SEC staff through a series of no-action letters has characterized as \"qualifying assets\" and at least another 20% of the assets of such entity be comprised of either qualifying assets or what the SEC staff in such guidance has characterized as \"real estate-related assets\" under the 1940 Act (and no more than 20% comprised of miscellaneous assets). The Company expects any of its subsidiaries relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) to rely on guidance published by the SEC staff to determine which assets are qualifying assets and which assets are real estate related under this exclusion to the extent such guidance is available. The SEC staff has determined in various no-action letters that qualifying assets for this purpose include senior, first ranking mortgage loans, certain B-Notes and mezzanine loans that satisfy various conditions specified in such SEC staff no-action letters. Neither the SEC nor its staff has, however, published guidance in respect of Section 3(c)(5)(C) regarding some of the Company's other target assets. For assets for which the SEC and its staff has not published guidance, the Company intends to rely on its own analysis to determine which of such assets are qualifying assets and which of such assets are real estate related under the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exclusion. For example, in the absence of additional guidance from the SEC staff, the Company intends to treat as real estate related assets B-Notes and mezzanine loans that do not satisfy the qualifying asset conditions set forth in the relevant SEC staff no-action letters, as well as debt and equity securities of companies primarily engaged in real estate businesses. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, the Company may be required to adjust its strategy accordingly. In addition, the Company may be limited in its ability to make certain investments and these limitations could result in the subsidiary holding assets the Company might wish to sell or selling assets the Company might wish to hold. Although the Company monitors the portfolios of its subsidiaries relying on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exclusion periodically and prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that such subsidiaries will be able to maintain their respective satisfaction of the requirements of this exclusion.. In August 2011, the SEC solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of this exclusion. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of companies relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, including the SEC or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding this exclusion, will not change in a manner that adversely affects the Company's operations. To the extent that the SEC staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusion, the Company may be required to adjust its strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC staff could provide additional flexibility to the Company, or it could further inhibit the Company's ability to pursue the strategies it has chosen.. The Company may organize subsidiaries in the future that may seek to rely on the 1940 Act exclusion provided to certain structured financing vehicles under Rule 3a-7. To comply with Rule 3a-7, any such subsidiary will need to comply with the restrictions described below, as well as any future guidance that may be issued by the SEC or its staff.. In general, Rule 3a-7 excludes from the 1940 Act issuers that limit their activities as follows:. • the issuer issues securities the payment of which depends primarily on the cash flow from \"eligible assets,\" which are assets that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period;. • the securities sold are fixed-income securities rated investment grade by at least one rating agency except that fixed- income securities which are unrated or rated below investment grade may be sold to institutional accredited investors and any securities may be sold to \"qualified institutional buyers\" and to persons involved in the organization or operation of the issuer;. • the issuer acquires and disposes of eligible assets (1) only in accordance with the agreements pursuant to which the securities are issued and (2) so that the acquisition or disposition does not result in a downgrading of the issuer's fixed-income securities and (3) the primary purpose of which is not recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes; and. • unless the issuer is issuing only commercial paper, the issuer appoints an independent trustee, takes reasonable steps to transfer to the trustee an ownership or perfected security interest in the eligible assets, and meets rating agency requirements for commingling of cash flows.. In addition, in certain circumstances, compliance with Rule 3a-7 may also require, among other things, that the indenture governing the Rule 3a-7 reliant subsidiary include additional limitations on the types of assets such subsidiary may sell or acquire out of the proceeds of assets that mature, are refinanced or otherwise sold, on the period of time during which such transactions may occur, and on the level of transactions that may occur. In light of the requirements of Rule 3a-7, there is no assurance that the Company's future subsidiaries will be able to rely on this rule and the Company's ability to manage assets. 11. held in subsidiaries that rely on this rule will be limited and may restrict the Company's ability to purchase or sell assets owned by that subsidiary when the Company would otherwise desire to do so, which could lead to losses.. In the absence of further SEC or SEC staff guidance, the aggregate value of the Company's interests in its subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7, must amount to less than 20% of the Company's total assets on an unconsolidated basis.. In August 2011, the SEC issued a release in which it indicated that it is considering proposing amendments to Rule 3a-7 to \"reflect market developments since 1992, when Rule 3a-7 was adopted, and recent developments affecting asset-backed issuers.\" Any amendments to Rule 3a-7 could provide additional flexibility or could inhibit the ability of any Company subsidiary to rely on this rule or to pursue certain strategies it has identified for such subsidiary.. The Company's subsidiaries may rely on alternative exclusions or exemptions from registration as investment companies under the 1940 Act other than Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) for purposes of complying with the 40% test. These alternative exclusions or exemptions may impose limitations on a subsidiary's organizational form, the types of assets that such subsidiary may hold or require such subsidiary to qualify under a banking, insurance or other regulatory regime. There is no assurance that the Company's subsidiaries will be able to rely on any alternative exclusions or exemptions and the Company's ability to manage assets held in subsidiaries that rely on these alternative exclusions or exemptions will be limited.. The determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company is made by the Company. The 1940 Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The 1940 Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. The Company treats entities in which it owns at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. The Company has not requested the SEC or its staff to approve the Company's treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC or its staff were to disagree with the Company's treatment of one of more companies as majority-owned subsidiaries, the Company would need to adjust its strategy and its assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in the Company's strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company has organized special purpose subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(7) to avoid registration as investment companies under the 1940 Act to hold certain assets and, therefore, the Company's interest in each of these Section 3(c)(7)-reliant subsidiaries constitutes an \"investment security\" for purposes of determining whether the Company passes the 40% test.. Qualification for particular exclusions from registration under 1940 Act as described herein may limit the Company's or its subsidiaries' ability to make certain investments.. If the Company failed to maintain its excluded status under the 1940 Act and became regulated as an investment company, the Company's ability to, among other things, use leverage would be substantially reduced and, as a result, the Company would be unable to conduct its business as described in this annual report on Form 10-K.. If the Company's subsidiaries fail to maintain an exclusion or exemption from registration pursuant to the 1940 Act, the Company could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which the Company conducts its operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of the Company's assets in a manner that, or at a time when, the Company would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect the value of the Company's common stock, the sustainability of its business model, and its ability to make distributions which could have an adverse effect on its business and the market price for shares of its common stock.. Securities eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on the market price of the Company's common stock.. Subject to applicable law, the Company's board of directors has the authority, without further stockholder approval, to issue additional authorized shares of common stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common stock on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. Additional securities offerings or issuance of additional common stock in connection with the conversion of convertible or exchangeable securities may dilute the holdings of the Company's existing stockholders or reduce the market price of its common stock, or both. Sales or other issuances of substantial amounts of the Company's common stock or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price the common stock.. The Company's authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in control.. The Company's charter authorizes it to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, the board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend the Company's charter to increase the aggregate number of the Company's shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that the Company has the authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, the Company's board of directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred. 12. stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of the Company's common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders.. Certain provisions in the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of the Company.. Certain provisions in the Convertible Senior Notes and the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire the Company. For example, if a takeover would constitute a fundamental change, holders of the Convertible Senior Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase their notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, the Company may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, the Company's obligations under the Convertible Senior Notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring the Company or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring the Company or removing incumbent management.. The Company's rights and the rights of its stockholders to take action against its directors and officers are limited, which could limit stockholders' recourse in the event of actions not in stockholders' best interests.. The Company's charter limits the liability of its present and former directors and officers to the Company and the Company's stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under Maryland law, the Company's present and former directors and officers do not have any liability to the Company and its stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment and was material to the cause of action adjudicated.. The Company's charter authorizes the Company to indemnify its directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. The Company's bylaws require it to indemnify each present and former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to the Company. The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with each of its directors and officers pursuant to which the Company may be obligated to pay or reimburse the defense costs incurred by the Company's present and former directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification.. The Company's charter contains provisions that make removal of its directors difficult, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect changes to the Company's management.. The Company's charter provides that, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock, a director may be removed with or without cause upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change the Company's management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of the Company that is in the best interests of stockholders.. Ownership limitations may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which the Company's stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.. In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of its outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year, and at least 100 persons must beneficially own the Company's stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate portion of a shorter taxable year. \"Individuals\" for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve the Company's REIT qualification, among other purposes, the Company's charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of the Company's capital stock or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock. The Articles Supplementary for the Company's Preferred Stock prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of its outstanding Preferred Stock. The indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes prohibits a holder of notes from receiving shares of the Company's stock upon conversion of the notes if such receipt would violate the ownership limitations contained in the Company's charter. These ownership limits in the Company's charter could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of the Company's common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The Company's board of directors has established exemptions from the ownership limits in the Company's charter which permit Apollo and certain of its affiliates to collectively. 13. hold up to 25% of the Company's common stock, a certain institutional investor to hold up to 20% of the Company's common stock, a certain institutional investor to hold up to 19.9% of the Company's common stock and certain institutional investors and certain of their specified affiliates to each collectively hold up to 15% of the Company's common stock.. Future litigation or administrative proceedings could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may from time to time be involved in legal proceedings, administrative proceedings, claims and other litigation. In addition, the Company has agreed to indemnify the Manager and certain of its affiliates against certain liabilities pursuant to the Management Agreement. Adverse outcomes or developments relating to such proceedings, as well expenses of defending or pursuing claims, or any other costs that may be incurred in connection with such proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S FINANCING. The Company's access to private sources of financing may be limited and thus the Company's ability to potentially enhance its returns may be adversely affected.. The Company's access to private sources of financing depends upon a number of factors over which it has little or no control, including:. • general market conditions;. • the market's view of the quality of the Company's assets;. • the market's perception of the Company's growth potential;. • the Company's eligibility to participate in and access capital from programs established by the U.S. government;. • the Company's current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and. • the market price of the shares of the Company's common stock.. Weakness in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect one or more private lenders and could cause one or more private lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide the Company with financing or to increase the costs of that financing. In addition, if regulatory capital requirements imposed on the Company's private lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to the Company. In general, this could potentially increase the Company's financing costs and reduce the Company's liquidity or require it to sell assets at an inopportune time or price.. Consequently, depending on market conditions at the relevant time, the Company may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to the Company's stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of the Company's cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for the Company's operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to stockholders and other purposes.. The Company leverages certain of its target assets, which may adversely affect the Company's return on its investments and may reduce cash available for distribution.. The Company leverages certain of the Company's target assets through secured debt arrangements. Leverage can enhance the Company's potential returns but can also exacerbate losses. The return on the Company's investments and cash available for distribution to stockholders may be reduced if market conditions cause the cost of the Company's financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired, which could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. In addition, the Company's debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. As a borrower, the Company is also subject to the risk that it may not be able to meet its debt service obligations. To the extent that the Company cannot meet its debt service obligations, the Company risks the loss of some or all of its assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy its debt obligations.. The Company may increase the amount of leverage it uses in its financing strategy, which would subject it to greater risk of loss.. The Company's charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness the Company can incur; although the Company is limited by certain financial covenants under its secured debt arrangements.. The Company may increase the amount of leverage it utilizes at any time without approval of its stockholders. Incurring substantial debt could subject the Company to many risks that, if realized, would materially and adversely affect it, including the risk that:. • the Company's cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on the debt or the Company may fail to comply with all of the other covenants contained in the debt documents, which is likely to result in (i) acceleration of such debt (and any other debt containing a cross-default or cross-acceleration. 14. provision) that the Company may be unable to repay from internal funds or to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, (ii) the Company's inability to borrow unused amounts under the Company's financing arrangements, even if the Company is current in payments on borrowings under those arrangements and/or (iii) the loss of some or all of the Company's assets to foreclosure or sale;. • the Company's debt may increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase with higher financing costs;. • the Company may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, stockholder distributions or other purposes; and. • the Company may not be able to refinance debt that matures prior to the investment it was used to finance on favorable terms, or at all.. Any credit facilities and secured debt arrangements that the Company may use to finance its assets may require the Company to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had secured debt arrangements in place, with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $2,290,139. The Company may utilize credit facilities and additional secured debt arrangements to finance its assets if they become available on acceptable terms. In the event the Company utilizes such financing arrangements, they may involve the risk that the market value of the Company's assets pledged or sold by the Company to the secured debt arrangements counterparty or provider of the credit facility may decline in value, in which case the lender may require the Company to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. The Company may not have the funds available to repay its debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless the Company is able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which the Company may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all. Posting additional collateral would reduce the Company's liquidity and limit its ability to leverage its assets. If the Company cannot meet these requirements, the lender could accelerate the Company's indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate the Company's ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and ability to implement its business plan. In addition, in the event that the lender files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, the Company's loans may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving the Company, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets. Such an event could restrict the Company's access to credit facilities and increase the Company's cost of capital. The lenders may also require the Company to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow the Company to satisfy its collateral obligations. In the event that the Company is unable to meet these collateral obligations, the Company's financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly.. The Company's existing secured debt arrangements impose restrictive covenants.. The Company's secured debt arrangements contain restrictive covenants which impose limitations on the manner in which the Company conducts its business.  For example, the Company is subject to customary restrictive covenants with respect to continuing to operate in a manner that allows the Company to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and financial covenants with respect to minimum consolidated tangible net worth, maximum total indebtedness to consolidated tangible net worth, and minimum liquidity. These covenants may restrict the Company's ability to engage in transactions that it believes would otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in the Company's secured debt arrangements could result in a default in those facilities. This could cause the Company's lenders to accelerate the timing of payments which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations, its ability to make distributions to stockholders and the trading price of its common stock.. Should the Company choose to employ non-recourse long-term securitizations in the future, such structures may expose the Company to risks which could result in losses to the Company.. The Company may seek to enhance the returns of all or a senior portion of the Company's commercial mortgage loans through securitizations. To securitize the Company's portfolio investments, the Company may create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of assets to the subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis to purchasers whom the Company would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools, and the Company would retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of portfolio investments. The successful securitization of the Company's portfolio investments might expose the Company to losses as the commercial real estate investments in which the Company does not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more likely to generate losses. Securitization financings could also restrict the Company's ability to sell assets when it would otherwise be advantageous to do so.. 15. An increase in the Company's borrowing costs relative to the interest it receives on its leveraged assets may adversely affect the Company's profitability and its cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. Borrowing rates are currently at historically low levels that may not be sustained in the long run. As the Company's secured debt arrangements and other short-term borrowings mature, it will be required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of the Company's assets. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that the Company seeks to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between the returns on its assets and the cost of its borrowings. This could adversely affect the returns on the Company's assets, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to its stockholders. In addition, because the Company's secured debt arrangements are short-term commitments of capital, lenders may respond to market conditions making it more difficult for the Company to secure continued financing. If the Company is not able to renew its then existing facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to the Company, or if it defaults on its covenants or is otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, the Company may have to curtail its asset acquisition activities and/or dispose of assets.. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce the income on the Company's investments and could increase the Company's financing costs, which may adversely affect the Company's earnings and its cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. Changes in interest rates will affect the Company's operating results as such changes will affect the interest the Company receives on any floating rate interest bearing investments and the financing cost of its floating rate debt, as well as the Company's interest rate swaps that it may utilize for hedging purposes. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates, which may result in losses for the Company. If a counterparty to the Company's secured debt arrangements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to the Company at the end of the transaction term or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if the Company defaults on its obligations under the secured debt arrangement, the Company will lose money on its secured debt arrangement.. When the Company engages in secured debt arrangements, it sells securities to lenders (i.e., secured debt arrangement counterparties) and receives cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to the Company at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash the Company receives from the lender when it initially sells the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to the Company, the Company could incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). The Company could also lose money on a secured debt arrangement if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as the Company would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Further, if the Company defaults on one of its obligations under a secured debt arrangement, the lender will be able to terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other secured debt arrangements with the Company. Any losses the Company incurs on its secured debt arrangements could adversely affect the Company's earnings and thus its cash available for distribution to stockholders.. The Company's rights under its secured debt arrangements may be subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or its lenders under the secured debt arrangements, which may allow the Company's lenders to repudiate its secured debt arrangements.. In the event of the Company's insolvency or bankruptcy, certain secured debt arrangements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable secured debt arrangements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. In the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a secured debt arrangement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and the Company's claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured creditor. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Company's ability to exercise its rights to recover its securities under a secured debt arrangement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender's insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. These claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages the Company actually incurs.. The Company may enter into hedging transactions that could expose it to contingent liabilities in the future and adversely impact its financial condition.. Subject to maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT, the Company may enter into hedging transactions that could require it to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by. 16. an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in the Company's results of operations, and its ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of the Company's assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact the Company's financial condition.. In addition, certain of the hedging instruments that the Company may enter into could involve risks since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. The Company cannot assure that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments that it may purchase or sell in the future, and the Company may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in significant losses.. Furthermore, the Company intends to record any derivative and hedging transactions it enters into in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"). However, the Company may choose not to pursue, or fail to qualify for, hedge accounting treatment relating to such derivative instruments. As a result, the Company's operating results may suffer because losses, if any, on these derivative instruments may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction or item.. Accounting rules for certain of the Company's transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities and other aspects of the Company's operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to the Company's stockholders. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact the Company's consolidated financial statements and the Company's ability to timely prepare its consolidated financial statements. The Company's inability to timely prepare its consolidated financial statements in the future would likely adversely affect the Company's stock price significantly.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Senior Notes, could have a material effect on the Company's reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20. ASC 470-20 requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments whose conversion may be settled entirely or partially in cash (such as the Convertible Senior Notes) in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost for non-convertible debt. The liability component of the Convertible Senior Notes were initially valued at the fair value of a similar debt instrument that does not have an associated equity component and is reflected as a liability in the Company's consolidated balance sheet. The equity component of the Convertible Senior Notes is included in the additional paid-in capital section of the Company's stockholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component. This original issue discount will be amortized to non-cash interest expense over the term of the Convertible Senior Notes, and the Company will record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods as a result of this amortization. Accordingly, the Company will report lower net income in its financial results because ASC 470-20 will require the interest expense associated with the Convertible Senior Notes to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the Convertible Senior Notes' coupon interest, which could adversely affect the Company's reported or future financial results, the trading price of the Company's common stock.. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments whose conversion may be settled entirely or partly in cash (such as the Convertible Senior Notes) are currently accounted for using the treasury stock method. Under this method, the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share unless the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount at the end of the relevant reporting period. If the conversion value exceeds their principal amount, then, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the Convertible Senior Notes are accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle the excess, if the Company elected to settle the excess in shares, are issued. The accounting standards in the future may not continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If the Company is unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares, if any, issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, then the Company's diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected.. 17. Hedging against currency and interest rate exposure may adversely affect the Company's earnings, which could reduce the Company's cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. Subject to maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT, the Company pursues various hedging strategies to seek to reduce its exposure to adverse changes in currencies and interest rates. The Company's hedging activity vary in scope based on the level and volatility of currency and interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. In addition, the Company may fail to recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient manner.. Any hedging activity in which the Company engages may materially and adversely affect its results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, while the Company may enter into such transactions seeking to reduce currency or interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if the Company had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, the Company may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent the Company from achieving the intended hedge and expose the Company to risk of loss.. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S INVESTMENTS. The Company cannot assure stockholders that it will be successful in consummating additional investment opportunities it identifies which would likely materially affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. The Company cannot assure stockholders that it will be able to continue to identify additional assets that meet its investment objective, that the Manager's due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts regarding such investments, that the Company will be successful in consummating any additional investment opportunities it identifies or that the investments it makes in the future will yield attractive risk-adjusted returns. The Company's inability to do any of the foregoing likely would materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. The Company may not achieve its underwritten internal rate of return on its investments which may lead to future returns that may be significantly lower than anticipated.. The calculations of the Company's underwritten internal rates of return included in this annual report on Form 10-K or in the Company's future periodic reports or press releases or other communications with respect to its investments are based on, among other considerations, assumptions regarding the performance of its assets, the costs of financing, the availability of its secured debt arrangements, the exercise of extension options and the absence of dispositions, early prepayments or defaults, all of which are subject to significant uncertainty. In addition, events or conditions that have not been anticipated may occur and may have a significant effect on the actual rate of return received on the Company's target assets. If these assumptions fail to materialize, future returns on the Company's investments may be significantly lower than underwritten returns. For additional discussion of factors that may affect actual returns on the Company's investments, see \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results of Operations.\". The Company may be subject to lender liability claims.. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed \"lender liability.\" Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. The Company cannot assure prospective investors that such claims will not arise or that the Company will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise.. Any credit ratings assigned to the Company's investments will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and the Company cannot assure stockholders that those ratings will not be downgraded.. Some of the Company's assets may be rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Any credit ratings on the Company's assets are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and these ratings could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of the Company's investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of the Company's investment portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition. An investment grade credit rating does not provide assurance that the subject investment will not become impaired.. 18. The Company may experience a decline in the fair value of its assets.. A decline in the fair market value of the Company's assets may require it to recognize an \"other-than-temporary\" impairment against such assets under GAAP if the Company was to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, the Company does not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient for a forecasted market price recovery up to or beyond the cost of such assets. On at least a quarterly basis, management assesses both the intent and ability to continue to hold such assets as long-term investments. As part of this process, the Company monitors these securities for any other-than-temporary impairments. A change in the ability and/or intent to continue to hold these available-for-sale securities could result in the Company recognizing an impairment charge.. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect the Company's future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale.. Some of the Company's portfolio investments are recorded at fair value and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Furthermore, the Company's determinations of fair value may have a material impact on its financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. The value of some of the Company's investments may not be readily determinable. The Company values these investments quarterly at fair value, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Because such valuations are subjective, the fair value of certain of the Company's assets may fluctuate over short periods of time and the Company's determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these assets existed. The Company's determinations of fair value may have a material impact on its earnings, in the case of impaired loans and other assets, trading securities and available-for-sale securities that are subject to other-than-temporary impairments, or the Company's accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in its stockholders' equity, in the case of available-for-sale securities that are subject only to temporary impairments. Accordingly, the value of the Company's common stock could be adversely affected by the Company's determinations regarding the fair value of its investments, whether in the applicable period or in the future.. Additionally, the Company's results of operations for a given period could be adversely affected if its determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that the Company ultimately realizes upon their disposal. The valuation process has been particularly challenging recently as market events have made valuations of certain assets more difficult, unpredictable and volatile.. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that the Company may acquire or the properties underlying its investments.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner's ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of the Company's debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to the Company may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by the Company and on the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders.. If the Company owns any properties, mortgage or other real estate-related loans upon a default of the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect the Company's ability to sell the property and the Company may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming its financial condition. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders.. Investments in preferred equity involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing.. The Company may invest in real estate preferred equity as an alternative to mezzanine loans, which involves a higher degree of risk than first mortgage loans due to a variety of factors, including the risk that, similar to mezzanine loans, such investments are subordinate to first mortgage loans and are not collateralized by property underlying the investment and, in certain instances, may not have financial performance covenants. Although as a holder of preferred equity the Company may enhance its position with covenants that limit the activities of the entity in which the Company has an interest and protect its equity by obtaining an exclusive right to control the underlying property after an event of default, should such a default occur on its investment, the Company would only be able to proceed against the entity in which it has an interest, and not the property owned by such entity and underlying the Company's investment. Further, similar to mezzanine loans, preferred equity does not. 19. ordinarily afford the holder with the full range of protections of a creditor. As a result, the Company may not recover some or all of its investment.. The lack of liquidity of the Company's assets may adversely affect the Company's business, including its ability to value and sell its assets.. The illiquidity of the Company's investments in commercial mortgage loans, commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and other real estate-related debt investments may make it difficult for the Company to sell such investments if the need or desire arises. Many of the securities the Company purchases are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or their disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. In addition, certain investments such as B Notes, mezzanine loans and other loans are also particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower's default. As a result, many of the Company's investments are illiquid and if the Company is required to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, the Company may realize significantly less than the value at which it has previously recorded its investments. Further, the Company may face other restrictions on its ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that the Company or the Manager has or could be attributed with material, non-public information regarding such business entity. As a result, the Company's ability to vary its portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's investments may be concentrated and are subject to risk of default.. The Company is not required to observe specific diversification criteria, except as may be set forth in the investment guidelines adopted by its board of directors. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Investment Guidelines.\" Therefore, the Company's investments in its target assets may at times be concentrated in certain property types that are subject to higher risk of foreclosure, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that the Company's investment portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of the Company's investments within a short time period, which may reduce its net income and the value of its common stock and accordingly reduce the Company's ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. Difficult conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may result in contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which the Company invests.. The Company's results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally. Beginning in mid-2007, global financial markets encountered a series of events from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market to the ensuing dramatic widening of credit spreads and corresponding broad-scale freezing of corporate lending. These events led to a significant dislocation in capital markets and created a severe shortage of debt capital for commercial real estate, a deleveraging of the entire global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets. As a result of these conditions, many traditional commercial mortgage loan and securities investors suffered severe losses in their loan and securities portfolios and several major market participants failed or were impaired, resulting in a severe contraction in market liquidity and in a sharp reduction in the availability of credit for real estate-related assets. Further certain lenders have been impacted by the European sovereign debt crisis. The resulting illiquidity negatively affected both the terms and availability of financing for all real estate-related assets, and generally resulted in real estate-related assets trading at significantly lower prices and higher yields compared to prior periods. Many lenders have continued to maintain tight lending standards and have reduced their lending capacity in response to the difficulties and changed economic conditions that have adversely affected the mortgage market. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of the Company's investments. Furthermore, if these conditions persist, institutions from which the Company may seek financing for its investments may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. The Company's profitability may be adversely affected if it is unable to obtain cost-effective financing for its investments.. The commercial mortgage loans and other commercial real estate-related loans the Company invests in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, any or all of which could result in losses to the Company.. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with mortgage loans made on the security of one to four family residential properties. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent. 20. income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. The Manager makes certain estimates of losses during its underwriting of commercial mortgage loans. However, estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances.. In the event of any default under a mortgage or other real estate-related loan held directly by the Company, the Company will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the commercial mortgage loan or other real estate-related loan, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a commercial mortgage loan borrower or other real estate-related loan borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law.. Foreclosure of a commercial mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on the Company's anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan.. The Company's investments in B Notes and mezzanine loans may be subject to losses. The B Notes in which the Company may invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to the Company.. As part of the Company's whole loan origination platform, the Company may retain from whole loans it acquires or originates, subordinate interests referred to as B Notes. B Notes are commercial real estate loans secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and subordinated to a senior interest, referred to as an A Note. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B Note owners after payment to the A Note owners. B Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. The Company cannot predict the terms of each B Note investment. Similar to the Company's B Note strategy, the Company may originate or acquire mezzanine loans originated after January 1, 2009, which are loans made to property owners that are secured by pledges of the borrower's ownership interests, in whole or in part, in entities that directly or indirectly own the real property. The loan to value and last dollar of exposure of the mezzanine loans generally do not differ greatly from the whole loans the Company originates or acquires, with the key distinction being that the most senior portion of the loan with the least credit risk is owned by a third party lender. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy the Company's loan, the Company may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, the Company may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, mezzanine loans are by their nature structurally subordinated to more senior property level financings. If a borrower defaults on the Company's mezzanine loan or on debt senior to the Company's loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, the Company's mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the property level debt and other senior debt is paid in full. Significant losses related to the Company's B Notes or mezzanine loans would result in operating losses for the Company and may limit the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders.. The Company's investments in commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular company and to the general risks of investing in real estate-related loans and securities, which may result in significant losses.. The Company may invest in commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies, including REITs. These investments will involve special risks relating to the particular company, including its financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business and prospects. In particular, the debt securities are often non-collateralized and may also be subordinated to its other obligations. The Company may invest in debt securities of companies that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade by one or more rating agencies. Investments that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade have a higher risk of default than investment grade rated assets and therefore may result in losses to us. The Company has not adopted any limit on such investments.. 21. These investments will also subject the Company to the risks inherent with real estate-related investments, including the risks described with respect to commercial properties and similar risks, including:. • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof;. • the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property;. • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and. • risks specific to the type and use of a particular property.. These risks may adversely affect the value of the Company's investments in commercial real estate operating and finance companies and the ability of the issuers thereof to make principal and interest payments in a timely manner, or at all, and could result in significant losses.. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair the Company's investments and harm its operations.. The Company believes the risks associated with its business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. In addition, the Company's investment model may be adversely affected if the current economic recession continues longer or is deeper than the Company anticipates. Declining real estate values will likely reduce the level of new mortgage and other real estate-related loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on the Company's loans if the value of real estate weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that the Company will incur losses on its loans in the event of default because the value of its collateral may be insufficient to cover its cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect the Company's manager's ability to invest in, sell and securitize loans, which would materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business and the Company's ability to pay dividends to stockholders.. The Company's real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. These risks may result in a reduction or elimination of return from a loan secured by a particular property.. The Company may own real estate directly in the future upon a default of mortgage or other real estate-related loans. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, including:. • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses;. • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks;. • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and. • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses.. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce the Company's return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate the Company's ability to pay dividends to stockholders.. The Company's investments in non-U.S. assets may subject to it to the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets and currency rate exposure.. The Company's investment guidelines permit investments in non-U.S. assets, subject to the same guidelines as investments in U.S. assets. Investments in countries outside of the United States may subject the Company to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations, and other laws and regulations that may make foreclosure and the exercise of other remedies in the case of default more difficult or costly compared to U.S. assets and political and economic instability abroad, any of which factors could adversely affect the Company's receipt of returns on and distributions from these investments. In addition, such investments may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars which would expose the Company to foreign currency risk.. The Company maintains cash balances in its bank accounts that exceed the FDIC insurance limitation.. The Company regularly maintains cash balances at banks domiciled in the United States in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit. The failure of such bank could result in the loss of a portion of such cash balances in excess of the federally insured limit, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial position.. 22. Investments that we make involving co-investors could be materially and adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our co-investors' financial condition and disputes between us and our co-investors.. We may co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, in which we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the investment, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments through partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that co-investors might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, make poor business decisions or block or delay necessary decisions. Co-investors may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor our co-investors would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and our co-investors may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent us from focusing our time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, our co-investors might result in subjecting the facilities owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our co-investors.. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S TAXATION AS A REIT. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Company's failure to qualify as a REIT or remain qualified as a REIT would subject it to U.S. federal income tax and applicable state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Company's stockholders.. The Company believes that it has been organized and operated and intends to continue to be organized and to operate in a manner that will allow it to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with the Company's taxable year ended December 31, 2009. The Company has not requested and does not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, that it qualifies as a REIT. The U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and judicial and administrative interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature and diversification of its assets and its income, the ownership of its outstanding shares, and the amount of its distributions. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize the Company's REIT qualification. The Company's ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon its analysis of the characterization and fair market values of its assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which the Company will not obtain independent appraisals. The Company's compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon the Company's ability to successfully manage the composition of its income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to qualify as a REIT. In addition, the Company's ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which the Company has no control or only limited influence, including in cases where the Company owns an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Thus, while the Company intends to operate so that it will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in its circumstances, no assurance can be given that the Company will so qualify for any particular year.. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and the Company does not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, it would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on its taxable income, and distributions to its stockholders would not be deductible by the Company in determining its taxable income. In such a case, the Company might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay its taxes. The Company's payment of income tax would decrease the amount of its income available for distribution to stockholders. Furthermore, if the Company fails to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the Company no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of its taxable income to stockholders. In addition, unless the Company were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, it could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify.. Complying with REIT requirements may force the Company to liquidate or forego otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must ensure that it meets the REIT gross income test annually and that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of its assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities, shares in REITs and other qualifying real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of the Company's investments in securities (other than government securities and REIT qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of the Company's assets (other than government securities and securities that are qualifying real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any. 23. one issuer, no more than 20% of the value of the Company's total securities (25% for taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2018) can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, not more than 25% of the value of the Company's assets can consist of debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs that are not secured by real property. If the Company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing its REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, the Company may be required to liquidate from its portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments, and may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to the Company in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing the Company's income and amounts available for distribution to its stockholders.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect the Company's ability to execute its business plan and may require the Company to incur debt or sell assets to make such distributions.. In order to qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that the Company satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, the Company will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the Company will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. The Company intends to distribute its net income to its stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% nondeductible excise tax.. In addition, the Company's taxable income may substantially exceed its net income as determined by GAAP or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, the Company may be required to accrue interest and discount income on mortgage loans, CMBS, and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before it receives any payments of interest or principal on such assets. The Company may be required under the terms of the indebtedness that it incurs, whether to private lenders or pursuant to government programs, to use cash received from interest payments to make principal payment on that indebtedness, with the effect that the Company will recognize income but will not have a corresponding amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. As a result of the foregoing, the Company may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year and find it difficult or impossible to meet the REIT distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In such circumstances, the Company may be required to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of the Company's shares as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder the Company's ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of its common stock.. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it may face tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow.. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, the Company has jointly elected with each of ACREFI I TRS, Inc. (\"ACREFI TRS\"), a Delaware corporation that is indirectly wholly owned by the Company, ARM TRS, LLC (\"ARM TRS\"), a Delaware corporation that is indirectly wholly owned by the Company, and ACREFI II TRS, Ltd. (\"ACREFI II TRS\"), a Cayman company that is indirectly wholly-owned by the Company, to treat each of ACREFI TRS, ARM TRS and ACREFI II TRS as a TRS of the Company. ACREFI TRS, ARM TRS and any other domestic TRSs the Company owns will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate taxes. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avoid the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from sales of inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, the Company may hold some of its assets through taxable subsidiary corporations, including ACREFI TRS, ARM TRS, ACREFI II TRS, or any other TRSs the Company may form. Any taxes paid by such subsidiary corporations would decrease the cash available for distribution to the Company's stockholders.. The Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder provide a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax that applies to a non-U.S. corporation that restricts its activities in the United States to trading in stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for its own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by such a non-U.S. corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. Certain U.S. stockholders of such a non-U.S. corporation are required to include in their income currently their proportionate share of the earnings of such a corporation, whether or not such earnings are distributed. ACREFI II TRS intends. 24. to operate in a manner so that it will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net income. Therefore, despite the status of ACREFI II TRS as a TRS, it should generally not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its earnings. However, there is no assurance that ACREFI II TRS will successfully operate in this manner. If ACREFI II TRS were subject to U.S. federal income tax on all or a portion of its income, this would reduce the amount of cash it had available for distributions to the Company, which could in turn reduce the amount of cash the Company was able to distribute to its stockholders.. The failure of mortgage loans subject to a secured debt arrangement or a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect the Company's ability to qualify as a REIT.. When the Company enters into secured debt arrangements, it will nominally sell certain of its assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. The Company believes that it will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of any such agreements notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that the Company did not own the assets during the term of the secured debt arrangement, in which case the Company could fail to qualify as a REIT.. In addition, the Company has and may continue to acquire and originate mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by equity interests in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. The Company expects to treat certain mezzanine loans that may not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor as real estate assets giving rise to qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT asset and income requirements, or otherwise not adversely affecting the Company's qualification as a REIT. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the tax treatment of these mezzanine loans, and if such a challenge were sustained, the Company could in certain circumstances be required to pay a penalty tax or fail to qualify as a REIT.. The Company may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income the Company ultimately realizes from them.. The Company may acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount will generally be treated as \"market discount\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Market discount generally is reported as income when, and to the extent that, any payment of principal of the debt instrument is made, unless the Company elects to include accrued market discount in income as it accrues. Principal payments on certain loans are made monthly, and consequently accrued market discount may have to be included in income each month as if the debt instrument were assured of ultimately being collected in full. If the Company collects less on the debt instrument than the Company's purchase price plus the market discount the Company had previously reported as income, it may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions.. The newly enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") implements various changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will impact the taxation of the Company and its stockholders. Among these changes, the TCJA generally accelerates the accrual for U.S. federal income tax purposes of certain items of income to the extent the Company would otherwise recognize such items of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes later than it would report such items on its financial statements. This provision of the TCJA could increase the Company's taxable income in certain taxable years, which could impact its ability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. This provision generally applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, but will apply with respect to income from a debt instrument having \"original issue discount\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes only for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018.. The \"taxable mortgage pool\" rules may increase the taxes that the Company or its stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which the Company effects future securitizations.. Securitizations by the Company or its subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, the Company could have \"excess inclusion income.\" Certain categories of stockholders, such as non-U.S. stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from the Company that is attributable to any such excess inclusion income. In addition, to the extent that the Company's common stock is owned by tax-exempt \"disqualified organizations,\" such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, the Company may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of any excess inclusion income. Moreover, the Company could face limitations in selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that. 25. might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent the Company from using certain techniques to maximize its returns from securitization transactions.. Although the Company's use of TRSs may be able to partially mitigate the impact of meeting the requirements necessary to maintain the Company's qualification as a REIT, the Company's ownership of and relationship with its TRSs is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize the Company's REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. ACREFI TRS, ARM TRS and any other domestic TRSs that the Company may form will pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to the Company but will not be required to be distributed to the Company, unless necessary to maintain the Company's REIT qualification. In addition, while not intended, it is possible that ACREFI II TRS could be subject to U.S. federal, state, and local income tax on all or a portion of its income. While the Company will be monitoring the aggregate value of the securities of the Company's TRSs and intends to conduct its affairs so that such securities will represent less than 20% of the value of the Company's total assets, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with the TRS limitation in all market conditions.. ACREFI II TRS currently does not hold any assets. However, in the past, the Company was required to include in its income, on a current basis, certain earnings of ACREFI II TRS. Those income inclusions were not technically included in any of the enumerated categories of income that qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test. However, in private letter rulings (which may not be relied on as precedent, but which generally indicates the IRS's view on an issue), the IRS exercised its authority under Internal Revenue Code section 856(c)(5)(J)(ii) to treat such income as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test. As a result, based on advice of counsel, the Company treated such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test. Notwithstanding the IRS's determination in the private letter rulings described above, it is possible that the IRS could assert that such income did not qualify for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test, which, if such income together with other income the Company earned in the relevant taxable year that did not qualify for the REIT 95% gross income test exceeded 5% of its gross income, could cause the Company to be subject to a penalty tax and could impact the Company's ability to qualify as a REIT.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could adversely affect the value of the Company's shares.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for these reduced rates for qualified dividends and therefore, dividends received (or deemed received) by REIT stockholders in 2017 may be subject to a 39.6% maximum U.S. federal income tax rate on ordinary income when paid to such stockholders. Beginning in 2018 (and through taxable years ending in 2025), the TCJA permits a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including \"qualified REIT dividends\" (generally, dividends received by a REIT stockholder that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), which will allow U.S. individuals, trusts, and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts, subject to certain limitations, resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such qualified REIT dividends. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to qualified dividends from C corporations could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the Company's shares.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit the Company's ability to hedge effectively.. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit the Company's ability to hedge its assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that the Company generates from transactions intended to hedge its interest rate exposure or currency fluctuations will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges either (i) interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, (ii) currency fluctuations with respect to items of income that qualify for purposes of the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests or assets that generate such income, or (iii) an instrument that hedges risks described in clause (i) or (ii) for a period following the extinguishment of. 26. the liability or the disposition of the asset that was previously hedged by the instrument, and, in each case, such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury Regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute nonqualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, the Company may have to limit its use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through ACREFI TRS, ARM TRS, ACREFI II TRS, or another TRS. This could increase the cost of the Company's hedging activities because the Company's TRS could be subject to tax on gains or expose the Company to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates and currency fluctuations than the Company would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the Company's TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit to the Company, although, subject to limitation, such losses may be carried forward to offset future taxable income of the TRS.. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit the Company's ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The Company might be subject to this tax if it was to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans as inventory for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, the Company may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans, other than through a TRS, and the Company may be required to limit the structures it uses for its securitization transactions, even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for the Company.. The Company may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of shares of its common stock.. The U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations governing REITs and their stockholders, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form, the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to the Company and its stockholders may be enacted.  Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect an investment in the Company's common stock. The TCJA, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, significantly changes U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders, and may lessen the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT rather than as a C corporation.  For additional discussion, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent U.S. Federal Income Tax Legislation.\" Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors regarding the effects of the TCJA or other legislative, regulatory or administrative developments on an investment in the Company's common stock.. The Company's qualification as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of assets that the Company acquires, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the Company's REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax.. When purchasing securities, the Company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing the equity tranche of a securitization, the Company may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of the securitization for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such securitization as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect the Company's REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax.. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect the Company's ability to qualify as a REIT.. The Company originates and acquires mezzanine loans, for which the IRS has provided a safe harbor but not rules of substantive law. Pursuant to the safe harbor, if a mezzanine loan meets certain requirements, it will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. The Company's mezzanine loans do not always meet all of the requirements of this safe harbor. In the event the Company owns a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loan's treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests and, if such a challenge were sustained, the Company could fail to qualify as a REIT, unless the Company is able to qualify for a statutory REIT \"savings\" provision, which may require it to pay a significant penalty tax to maintain our REIT qualification.. 27. The Company may fail to qualify as a REIT or become subject to a penalty tax if the IRS successfully challenges the Company's treatment of its mezzanine loans and certain preferred equity investments as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. There is limited case law and administrative guidance addressing whether instruments similar to the Company's mezzanine loans and preferred equity investments will be treated as equity or debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company treats its mezzanine loans and its preferred equity investments that have a debt-like fixed return and redemption date as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but the Company does not obtain private letter rulings from the IRS or opinions of counsel on the characterization of such investments for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If such investments were treated as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company would be treated as owning the assets held by the partnership or limited liability company that issued the mezzanine loan or preferred equity, and the Company would be treated as receiving its proportionate share of the income of that entity. If that partnership or limited liability company owned nonqualifying assets, earned nonqualifying income, or earned prohibited transaction income, the Company may not be able to satisfy all of the REIT income or asset tests or could be subject to prohibited transaction tax. Accordingly, the Company could be required to pay prohibited transaction tax or fail to qualify as a REIT if the IRS does not respect the Company's classification of its mezzanine loans and certain preferred equity investments as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless the Company is able to qualify for a statutory REIT \"savings\" provision, which may require it to pay a significant penalty tax to maintain its REIT qualification."
