[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in Apollo Investment involves a number of significant risks relating to the current environment, our business and structure, our investments, issuance of our preferred stock, and an investment in our common stock. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before you decide whether to invest in Apollo Investment. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Risks Relating to the Current Environment. Rising interest rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our debt investments may be based on floating rates, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"), the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (\"EURIBOR\"), the federal funds rate or the prime rate. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. Because we have borrowed money, and may issue preferred stock to finance investments, our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay distributions on preferred stock and the rate that our investments yield. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income.. You should also be aware that a change in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to a change in the interest rate we receive on many of our debt investments. Accordingly, a change in the interest rate could make it easier for us to meet or exceed the performance threshold and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser with respect to the portion of the incentive fee based on income.. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation, which reduces our net asset value. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. For example, between 2007 and 2009, the global capital markets experienced an extended period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the United States, federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While market conditions have largely recovered from the events of 2008 and 2009, there have been continuing periods of volatility, some lasting longer than others. For example, in the latter half of 2015 and continuing through the date of this Annual Report, economic uncertainty and market volatility in China and geopolitical unrest in the Middle East, combined with continued volatility of oil prices, among other factors, have caused disruption in the capital markets, including the markets in which we participate. There can be no assurance that these market conditions will not continue or worsen in the future. During such market disruptions, we may have difficulty raising debt or equity capital especially as a result of regulatory constraints.. 11. Table of Contents. Market conditions may in the future make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness, including the final maturity of our senior secured credit facility in December 2021, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments.. Given the extreme volatility and dislocation that the capital markets have historically experienced, many BDCs have faced, and may in the future face, a challenging environment in which to raise capital. We may in the future have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital, and a severe disruption in the global financial markets or deterioration in credit and financing conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. AIM monitors developments and seeks to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that it will be successful in doing so; and AIM may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments, including regulatory developments in the current or future market environment.. Volatility in the global financial markets resulting from relapse of the Eurozone crisis, geopolitical developments in Eastern Europe, turbulence in the Chinese stock markets and global commodity markets, the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Volatility in the global financial markets could have an adverse effect on the United States and could result from a number of causes, including a relapse in the Eurozone crisis, geopolitical developments in Eastern Europe, turbulence in the Chinese stock markets and global commodity markets or otherwise. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. While the financial stability of many of such countries has improved significantly, risks resulting from any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available, or if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. In the second quarter of 2015, stock prices in China experienced a significant drop, resulting primarily from continued sell-off of shares trading in Chinese markets. In addition, in August 2015, Chinese authorities sharply devalued China's currency. Since then, the Chinese capital markets have continued to experience periods of instability. These market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The occurrence of events similar to those in recent years, such as the aftermath of the war in Iraq, instability in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East, ongoing epidemics of infectious diseases in certain parts of the world, terrorist attacks in the U.S. and around the world, social and political discord, debt crises (such as the Greek crisis), sovereign debt downgrades, continued tensions between North Korea and the United States and the international community generally, new and continued political unrest in various countries, such as Venezuela, the exit or potential exit of one or more countries from the European Union (the \"EU\") or the Economic and Monetary Union (the \"EMU\"), the change in the U.S. president and the new administration, among others, may result in market volatility, may have long term effects on the U.S. and worldwide financial markets, and may cause further economic uncertainties in the U.S. and worldwide.. 12. Table of Contents. As a consequence of the United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the EU, the government of the United Kingdom gave notice of its withdrawal from the EU (\"Brexit\"). As a result of this decision, the financial markets experienced high levels of volatility and it is likely that, in the near term, Brexit will continue to bring about higher levels of uncertainty and volatility. During this period of uncertainty, the negative impact on not only the United Kingdom and European economies, but the broader global economy, could be significant, potentially resulting in increased market and currency volatility (including volatility of the value of the British pound sterling relative to the United States dollar and other currencies and volatility in global currency markets generally), and illiquidity and lower economic growth for companies that rely significantly on Europe for their business activities and revenues. It is possible that certain economic activity will be curtailed until some signs of clarity begin to emerge, including negotiations around the terms for United Kingdom's exit out of the EU. Additional risks associated with the outcome of Brexit include macroeconomic risk to the United Kingdom and European economies, impetus for further disintegration of the EU and related political stresses (including those related to sentiment against cross border capital movements and activities of investors like us), prejudice to financial services business that are conducting business in the EU and which are based in the United Kingdom, legal uncertainty regarding achievement of compliance with applicable financial and commercial laws and regulations in view of the expected steps to be taken pursuant to or in contemplation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union and negotiations undertaken under Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the unavailability of timely information as to expected legal, tax and other regimes. Any further exits from the EU, or the possibility of such exits, would likely cause additional market disruption globally and introduce new legal and regulatory uncertainties. The Company will continue to monitor the potential impact of Brexit on its results of operations and financial condition.. The occurrence of any of these above event(s) could have a significant adverse impact on the value and risk profile of the Company's portfolio. The Company does not know how long the securities markets may be affected by similar events and cannot predict the effects of similar events in the future on the U.S. economy and securities markets. Non-investment grade and equity securities tend to be more volatile than investment-grade fixed income securities; therefore, these events and other market disruptions may have a greater impact on the prices and volatility of non-investment grade and equity securities than on investment-grade fixed income securities. There can be no assurances that similar events and other market disruptions will not have other material and adverse implications.. Should the economic recovery in the United States be adversely impacted by increased volatility in the global financial markets caused by continued contagion from the Eurozone crisis, further turbulence in Chinese stock markets and global commodity markets, Brexit or for any other reason, loan and asset growth and liquidity conditions at U.S. financial institutions, including us, may deteriorate.. Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States and the new presidential administration could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history on August 5, 2011. Further, Moody's and Fitch had warned that they may downgrade the federal government's credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the United States government's credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased U.S. government credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock.. In October 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it was concluding its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve's holdings of long-term securities, suggesting that key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, had showed signs of improvement since the inception of the program. It is unclear what effect, if any, the conclusion of the Federal Reserve's bond-buying program will have on the value of our investments. However, it is possible that, without quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments, along with the United States government's credit and deficit concerns and the European sovereign debt crisis discussed above, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Additionally, in January 2018, the Federal Reserve reaffirmed its view that the current target range of 1.25% to 1.50% for the federal funds rate was appropriate based on current economic conditions. However, if key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, do not progress at a rate consistent with the Federal Reserve's objectives, the target range for the federal funds rate may increase and cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. 13. Table of Contents. In December 2017, the Trump administration enacted substantial changes to U.S. fiscal and tax policies, which include comprehensive corporate and individual tax reform. In addition, the Trump administration has called for significant changes to U.S. trade, healthcare, immigration, foreign, and government regulatory policy. In this regard, there is significant uncertainty with respect to legislation, regulation and government policy at the federal level, as well as the state and local levels. Recent events have created a climate of heightened uncertainty and introduced new and difficult-to-quantify macroeconomic and political risks with potentially far-reaching implications. There has been a corresponding meaningful increase in the uncertainty surrounding interest rates, inflation, foreign exchange rates, trade volumes and fiscal and monetary policy. To the extent the U.S. Congress or Trump administration implements changes to U.S. policy, those changes may impact, among other things, the U.S. and global economy, international trade and relations, unemployment, immigration, corporate taxes, healthcare, the U.S. regulatory environment, inflation and other areas. Some particular areas identified as subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), including the Volcker Rule and various swaps and derivatives regulations, credit risk retention requirements and the authorities of the Federal Reserve, the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the SEC. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Until we know what policy changes are made and how those changes impact our business and the business of our competitors over the long term, we will not know if, overall, we will benefit from them or be negatively affected by them. The Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds Rate three times in 2017 and once thus far in 2018, and it may continue to raise the Federal Funds Rate over time. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net investment income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our distributions rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. If AIC can no longer satisfy the conditions of Letter 12-40 (as defined below) issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\"), AIC and AIM could be subject to additional regulatory requirements.. AIM has claimed relief available under a no-action letter (\"Letter 12-40\") issued by the staff of the CFTC. Letter 12-40 relieves AIM from registering with the CFTC as the commodity pool operator (\"CPO\") of AIC, provided that AIC (i) continues to be regulated by the SEC as a BDC, (ii) allocates no more than a designated percentage of its liquidation value to futures contracts, certain swap contracts and certain other derivative instruments that are within the jurisdiction of the Commodity Exchange Act (collectively, \"CEA-regulated products\"), and (iii) is not marketed to the public as a commodity pool or as a vehicle for trading in CEA-regulated products. If AIC can no longer satisfy the conditions of Letter 12-40, AIM could be subject to the CFTC's CPO registration requirements, and the disclosure and operations of AIC would need to comply with all applicable regulations governing commodity pools and CPOs. If AIM were required to register as a CPO, it would also be required to become a member of the National Futures Association (\"NFA\") and be subject to the NFA's rules and bylaws. Compliance with these additional registration and regulatory requirements may increase AIM's operating expenses, which, in turn, could result in AIC's investors being charged additional fees.. The continued uncertainty relating to the sustainability and pace of economic recovery in the U.S. and globally could have a negative impact on our business.. Apollo Investment's business is directly influenced by the economic cycle, and could be negatively impacted by a downturn in economic activity in the U.S. as well as globally. Fiscal and monetary actions taken by U.S. and non-U.S. government and regulatory authorities could have a material adverse impact on our business. To the extent uncertainty regarding the U.S. or global economy negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, Federal Reserve policy, including with respect to certain interest rates and the decision to end its quantitative easing policy, may also adversely affect the value, volatility and liquidity of dividend and interest paying securities. Market volatility, rising interest rates and/or a return to unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business.. 14. Table of Contents. Changes to U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the ''Act'') makes substantial changes to the Code. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers that generally but not universally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to ''sunset'' provisions, the elimination or modification of various previously allowed deductions (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest and, in the case of individuals, the deduction for personal state and local taxes), certain preferential rates of taxation on certain dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers, and significant changes to the international tax rules. The effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the Act is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or our common stock or market conditions generally. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the Act will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. There may also be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the Act, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders.. Risks Relating to our Business and Structure. We may suffer credit losses.. Investment in small and middle-market companies is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss. These risks are likely to increase during volatile economic periods, as the U.S. and many other economies have experienced. See \"Risks Relating to our Investments.\". We are dependent upon Apollo Investment Management's key personnel for our future success and upon their access to AGM's investment professionals and partners.. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of AIM specifically and AGM generally. Members of our senior management may depart at any time. We also depend, to a significant extent, on AIM's access to the investment professionals and partners of AGM and the information and deal flow generated by the AGM investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The senior management of AIM evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments. Our future success depends on the continued service of senior members of AGM's credit platform, including the senior management team of AIM. The departure of our senior management, any senior managers of AIM, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or partners of AGM, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, we can offer no assurance that AIM will remain our Investment Adviser or that we will continue to have access to AGM's partners and investment professionals or its information and deal flow.. Our financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends, in part, on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on AIM's ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of AIM's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of AIM has substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory management agreement, and with respect to certain members, in connection with their roles as officers of other AGM funds.. They may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, we and AIM may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, other BDCs and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Competition for investment opportunities intensifies from time to time and may intensify further in the future. Some of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions and valuation requirements that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer.. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss.. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility.. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility.. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our status as a RIC.. To maintain our RIC status under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC generally is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our \"investment company taxable income\" (generally, our ordinary income and the excess, if any, of our net short-term capital gains over our net long-term capital losses), if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. To the extent we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements and other financial covenants under loan and credit agreements, and could in some circumstances also become subject to such requirements under the 1940 Act, that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to maintain our status as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to maintain our status as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To maintain our status as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to maintain our status as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate-level taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders.. To maintain our status as a RIC in a subsequent year, we would be required to distribute to our stockholders our earnings and profits attributable to non-RIC years. In addition, if we failed to maintain our status as a RIC for a period greater than two taxable years, then we would be required to elect to recognize and pay tax on any net built-in gain (the excess of aggregate gain, including items of income, over aggregate loss that would have been realized if we had been liquidated) or, alternatively, be subject to taxation on such built-in gain recognized for a period of five years, in order to qualify as a RIC in a subsequent year.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount (\"OID\"), which may arise if, for example, we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and typically due at the end of the loan term or possibly in other circumstances. Such OID is included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments and could be significant relative to our overall investment activities. Loans structured with these features may represent a higher level of credit risk than loans the interest on which must be paid in cash at regular intervals. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash.. 16. Table of Contents. The incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income is computed and paid on income that may include some interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Consequently, while we may make incentive fee payments on income accruals that we may not collect in the future and with respect to which we do not have a formal clawback right against our Investment Adviser per se, the amount of accrued income written off in any period will reduce the income in the period in which such write-off was taken and thereby reduce such period's incentive fee payment. For the period between April 1, 2012 and March 31, 2018, the portion of the incentive fee that is attributable to deferred interest, such as PIK income, will not be paid to AIM until the Company receives such deferred interest in cash. The accrual of incentive fees shall be reversed if such interest is written off in connection with any write-off or similar treatment of the investment.. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations in order to meet distribution and/or leverage requirements.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital.. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as \"senior securities,\" up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet an asset coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. This means that for every $100 of net assets, we may raise $100 from senior securities, such as borrowings or issuing preferred stock. If this ratio declines below 200%, the contractual arrangements governing these securities may require us to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. On March 23, 2018, the President signed into law the Small Business Credit Availability Act (the \"SBCAA\"), which included various changes to regulations under the federal securities laws that impact BDCs, including changes to the 1940 Act to allow BDCs to decrease their asset coverage requirement to 150% from 200% under certain circumstances. On April 4, 2018, the Board of Directors approved the application of the modified asset coverage requirements for the Company. Accordingly, effective April 4, 2019, for every $100 of net assets, we may raise $200 from senior securities, such as borrowings or issuing preferred stock. After April 4, 2019, if the asset coverage ratio declines below 150%, the contractual arrangements governing these securities may require us to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous.. BDCs may issue and sell common stock at a price below net asset value per share only in limited circumstances, one of which is during the one-year period after stockholder approval. In the past, our stockholders have approved a plan so that during the subsequent 12 month period we could, in one or more public or private offerings of our common stock, sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below the then current net asset value per share, subject to certain conditions including parameters on the level of permissible dilution, approval of the sale by a majority of our independent directors and a requirement that the sale price be not less than approximately the market price of the shares of our common stock at specified times, less the expenses of the sale. Although we currently do not have such authority, we may in the future seek to receive such authority on terms and conditions set forth in the corresponding proxy statement. There is no assurance such approvals will be obtained.. In the event we sell, or otherwise issue, shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share, existing stockholders will experience net asset value dilution and the investors who acquire shares in such offering may thereafter experience the same type of dilution from subsequent offerings at a discount. For example, if we sell an additional 10% of our common shares at a 5% discount from net asset value, a stockholder who does not participate in that offering for its proportionate interest will suffer net asset value dilution of up to 0.5% or $5 per $1,000 of net asset value.. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly-owned subsidiary, contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary and have the subsidiary issue primarily investment grade debt securities to purchasers who we would expect would be willing to accept a substantially lower interest rate than the loans earn. We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of loans. Our retained equity would be exposed to any losses on the portfolio of loans before any of the debt securities would be exposed to such losses. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and adversely affect our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses.. 17. Table of Contents. We currently use borrowed funds to make investments and are exposed to the typical risks associated with leverage.. We are exposed to increased risk of loss due to our use of debt to make investments. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use debt. Our ability to make distributions will be restricted if we fail to satisfy certain of our asset coverage ratios and other financial covenants and any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness are not available for distributions to our common stockholders.. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments require us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants require us to, among other things, maintain certain financial ratios, including asset coverage and minimum stockholders' equity. As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of deterioration in the capital markets and pricing levels subsequent to this period, net unrealized loss in our portfolio may increase in the future. Absent an amendment to our Senior Secured Facility (as defined below), continued unrealized loss in our investment portfolio could result in non-compliance with certain covenants.. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the debt holders, could accelerate repayment under the instruments and thereby have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. Our current and future debt securities are and may be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock.. We fund a portion of our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.. Borrowings and other types of financing, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Our lenders and debt holders have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of consolidated interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our common stockholders. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique.. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments with preferred stock, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowings.. Preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference.. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income.. Because we borrow money, and may issue preferred stock to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay dividends on preferred stock and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase except to the extent we have issued fixed rate debt or preferred stock, which could reduce our net investment income. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act and applicable commodities laws. Interest rate hedging activities do not protect against credit risk.. 18. Table of Contents. We have analyzed the potential impact of changes in interest rates on interest income net of interest expense. Assuming no changes to our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, a hypothetical one percent increase in LIBOR on our floating rate assets and liabilities would increase our earnings by four cents per average share over the next twelve months. Assuming no changes to our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, a hypothetical two percent increase in LIBOR on our floating rate assets and liabilities would increase our earnings by eight cents per average share over the next twelve months. Assuming no changes to our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, a hypothetical three percent increase in LIBOR on our floating rate assets and liabilities would increase our earnings by twelve cents per average share over the next twelve months. Assuming no changes to our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, a hypothetical four percent increase in LIBOR on our floating rate assets and liabilities would increase our earnings by sixteen cents per average share over the next twelve months. Assuming no changes to our balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, a hypothetical one percent decrease in LIBOR on our floating rate assets and liabilities would decrease our earnings by less than one cent per average share over the next twelve months. In addition, we believe that our interest rate matching strategy and our ability to hedge mitigates the effects any changes in interest rates may have on our investment income. Although management believes that this is indicative of our sensitivity to interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes in credit quality, size and composition of the assets on the balance sheet and other business developments that could affect net increase or decrease in net assets resulting from operations, or net income. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual results would not differ materially from the potential outcome simulated by this estimate.. A portion of our floating rate investments may include features such as LIBOR floors. To the extent we invest in credit instruments with LIBOR floors, we may lose some of the benefits of incurring leverage. Specifically, if we issue preferred stock or debt (or otherwise borrow money), our costs of leverage will increase as rates increase. However, we may not benefit from the higher coupon payments resulting from increased interest rates if our investments in LIBOR floors and rates do not rise to levels above the LIBOR floors. In this situation, we will experience increased financing costs without the benefit of receiving higher income. This in turn may result in the potential for a decrease in the level of income available for dividends or distributions made by us.. You should also be aware that a change in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to a change in the interest rates we receive on many of our debt investments. Accordingly, a change in interest rates could make it easier for us to meet or exceed the performance threshold and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive fees payable to our Investment Adviser with respect to pre-incentive fee net investment income.. In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. There is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of LIBOR or of any particular replacement rate. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital and net investment income cannot yet be determined.. Our business requires a substantial amount of capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income.. Our business requires a substantial amount of capital. We have issued equity securities and have borrowed from financial institutions. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to maintain our RIC status. As a result, any such cash earnings may not be available to fund investment originations. We expect to continue to borrow from financial institutions and issue additional debt and equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, as a BDC, our ability to borrow or issue additional preferred stock may be restricted if our total assets are less than 200% (150% after April 4, 2019) of our total borrowings and preferred stock.. 19. Table of Contents. Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. A large percentage of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. The fair value of these investments may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value (based on ASC 820, its corresponding guidance and the principal markets in which these investments trade) as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors pursuant to a written valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process utilizing the input of our Investment Adviser, independent valuation firms, third party pricing services and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors utilizes the services of independent valuation firms to aid it in determining the fair value of these investments. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of these investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to more liquid securities, indices and other market-related inputs, discounted cash flow, our principal market and other relevant factors. For these securities for which a quote is either not readily available or deemed not to represent fair value, we utilize independent valuation firms to assist with valuation of these Level 3 investments. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a readily available market for these investments existed and may differ materially from the amounts we realize on any disposition of such investments. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. In addition, decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized loss. Unprecedented declines in prices and liquidity in the corporate debt markets have resulted in significant net unrealized loss in our portfolio, as well as a reduction in NAV, in the past. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may continue to suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or an affiliated manager of AGM has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company.. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic results.. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings), the dividend rates on preferred stock we issue, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted.. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security (other than our securities) from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities or certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC through an exemptive order (the \"Order\") (other than in certain limited situations pursuant to current regulatory guidance). The analysis of whether a particular transaction constitutes a joint transaction requires a review of the relevant facts and circumstances then existing. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates.. 20. Table of Contents. Under the terms of the Order, a \"required majority\" (as defined in Section 57(o) of the 1940 Act) of our independent directors must be able to reach certain conclusions in connection with a co-investment transaction, including that (1) the terms of the proposed transaction are reasonable and fair to us and our stockholders and do not involve overreaching of us or our stockholders on the part of any person concerned, and (2) the transaction is consistent with the interests of our stockholders and is consistent with our Board of Directors approved criteria. In certain situations where co-investment with one or more funds managed by AIM or its affiliates is not covered by the Order, the personnel of AIM or its affiliates will need to decide which fund will proceed with the investment. Such personnel will make these determinations based on allocation policies and procedures, which are designed to reasonably ensure that investment opportunities are allocated fairly and equitably among affiliated funds over time and in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Order is subject to certain terms and conditions so there can be no assurance that we will be permitted to co-invest with certain of our affiliates other than in the circumstances currently permitted by regulatory guidance and the Order.. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could adversely affect our investment returns.. Allocation of Personnel. Potential investment and disposition opportunities are generally approved by one or more investment committees composed of personnel across AGM including Messrs. Zelter, Widra, Ryan and Powell and/or by all or a majority of Messrs. Zelter, Widra, Ryan and Powell depending on the underlying investment type and/or the amount of such investment. Our executive officers and directors, and the partners of our Investment Adviser, AIM, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. Moreover, we note that, notwithstanding the difference in principal investment objectives between us and other AGM funds, such other AGM sponsored funds, including new affiliated potential pooled investment vehicles or managed accounts not yet established (whether managed or sponsored by AGM or AIM itself), have and may from time to time have overlapping investment objectives with us and, accordingly, invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those targeted by us. To the extent such other investment vehicles have overlapping investment objectives, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to us may be adversely affected and/or reduced. As a result, certain partners of AIM may face conflicts in their time management and commitments as well as in the allocation of investment opportunities to other AGM funds. In addition, in the event such investment opportunities are allocated among us and other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by, or affiliated with, AIM our desired investment portfolio may be adversely affected. Although AIM endeavors to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by investment funds managed by AIM or investment managers affiliated with AIM.. No Information Barriers. There are no information barriers amongst AGM and certain of its affiliates. If AIM were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, AGM or certain of its affiliates may be prevented from investing in such company. Conversely, if AGM or certain of its affiliates were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, we may be prevented from investing in such company.. This risk may affect us more than it does other investment vehicles, as AIM generally does not use information barriers that many firms implement to separate persons who make investment decisions from others who might possess material, non-public information that could influence such decisions. AIM's decision not to implement these barriers could prevent its investment professionals from undertaking certain transactions such as advantageous investments or dispositions that would be permissible for them otherwise. In addition, AIM could in the future decide to establish information barriers, particularly as its business expands and diversifies.. Co-Investment Activity and Allocation of Investment Opportunities. In certain circumstances, negotiated co-investments may be made only in accordance with the terms of the exemptive order we received from the SEC permitting us to do so. The Order is subject to certain terms and conditions so there can be no assurance that we will be permitted to co-invest with certain of our affiliates other than in the circumstances currently permitted by regulatory guidance and the Order.. 21. Table of Contents. AGM and its affiliated investment managers, including AIM, may determine that an investment is appropriate both for us and for one or more other funds. In such event, depending on the availability of such investment and other appropriate factors, AIM may determine that we should invest on a side-by-side basis with one or more other funds. We may make all such investments subject to compliance with applicable regulations and interpretations, and our allocation procedures. AGM has adopted allocation procedures that are intended to ensure that each fund or account managed by AGM or certain of its affiliates (\"Apollo-advised funds\") is treated in a manner that, over time, is fair and equitable. Allocations generally are made pro rata based on order size. In certain circumstances, the allocation policy provides for the allocation of investments pursuant to a predefined arrangement that is other than pro rata. As a result, in situations where a security is appropriate for us but is limited in availability, we may receive a lower allocation than may be desired by our portfolio managers or no allocation if it is determined that the investment is more appropriate for a different Apollo-advised fund because of its investment mandate. Investment opportunities may be allocated on a basis other than pro rata to the extent it is done in good faith and does not, or is not reasonably expected to, result in an improper disadvantage or advantage to one participating Apollo-advised fund as compared to another participating Apollo-advised fund.. In the event investment opportunities are allocated among us and other Apollo-advised funds, we may not be able to structure our investment portfolio in the manner desired. Although AGM endeavors to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other Apollo-advised funds or portfolio managers affiliated with AIM. Furthermore, we and the other Apollo-advised funds may make investments in securities where the prevailing trading activity may make impossible the receipt of the same price or execution on the entire volume of securities purchased or sold by us and such other Apollo-advised funds. When this occurs, the various prices may be averaged, and we will be charged or credited with the average price. Thus, the effect of the aggregation may operate on some occasions to our disadvantage. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may not be charged the same commission or commission equivalent rates in connection with a bunched or aggregated order.. It is possible that other Apollo-advised funds may make investments in the same or similar securities at different times and on different terms than we do. From time to time, we and the other Apollo-advised funds may make investments at different levels of an issuer's capital structure or otherwise in different classes of an issuer's securities. Such investments may inherently give rise to conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest between or among the various classes of securities that may be held by such entities. Conflicts may also arise because portfolio decisions regarding us may benefit such other Apollo-advised funds. For example, the sale of a long position or establishment of a short position by us may impair the price of the same security sold short by (and therefore benefit) one or more Apollo-advised funds, and the purchase of a security or covering of a short position in a security by us may increase the price of the same security held by (and therefore benefit) one or more Apollo-advised funds. In these circumstances AIM and its affiliates will seek to resolve each conflict in a manner that is fair to the various clients involved in light of the totality of the circumstances. In some cases the resolution may not be in our best interests.. AGM and its clients may pursue or enforce rights with respect to an issuer in which we have invested, and those activities may have an adverse effect on us. As a result, prices, availability, liquidity and terms of our investments may be negatively impacted by the activities of AGM or its clients, and transactions for us may be impaired or effected at prices or terms that may be less favorable than would otherwise have been the case.. Fees and Expenses. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to AIM, and reimburse AIM for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock invest on a \"gross\" basis and receive distributions on a \"net\" basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of AIM has interests that differ from those of our common stockholders, giving rise to a conflict.. AIM receives a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on our pre-incentive fee income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This incentive fee will not be payable to AIM unless the pre-incentive net investment income exceeds the performance threshold. To the extent we or AIM are able to exert influence over our portfolio companies, the quarterly pre-incentive fee may provide AIM with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to prepay interest or other obligations in certain circumstances.. 22. Table of Contents. Allocation of Expenses. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with AGM, pursuant to which AGM has agreed to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name \"Apollo.\" Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the \"Apollo\" name for so long as AIM or one of its affiliates remains our Investment Adviser. In addition, we rent office space from AIA, an affiliate of AIM, and pay AIA our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by AIA in performing its obligations under the administration agreement, including our allocable portion of the cost of our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and their respective staffs, which can create conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors must monitor.. In the past following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has, from time to time, been brought against that company.. If our stock price fluctuates significantly, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business.. To the extent OID and PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash representing such income.. Our investments may include OID and PIK interest arrangements, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan's term. To the extent OID or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we are exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including the following:.  The higher interest rates of OID and PIK instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID and PIK instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans..  Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation..  OID and PIK instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectibility of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID and PIK income may also create uncertainty about the source of our cash distributions..  Capitalizing PIK interest to loan principal increases our gross assets, thus increasing our Investment Adviser's future base management fees, and increases future investment income, thus increasing our Investment Adviser's future income incentive fees at a compounding rate..  Market prices of zero-coupon or PIK securities may be affected to a greater extent by interest rate changes and may be more volatile than securities that pay interest periodically and in cash..  For accounting purposes, any cash distributions to stockholders representing OID and PIK income are not designated as paid-in capital, even if the cash to pay them derives from offering proceeds. As a result, despite the fact that a distribution representing OID and PIK income could be paid out of amounts invested by our stockholders, the 1940 Act does not require that stockholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital.. 23. Table of Contents. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business or the businesses of our portfolio companies and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could negatively affect the profitability of our operations or of our portfolio companies.. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments, as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations. In particular, changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control or the removal of our directors. We are subject to Subtitle 6 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporate Law, the Maryland Business Combination Act, subject to any applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board of Directors, including approval by a majority of our disinterested directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board of Directors does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We are subject to Subtitle 7 of Title 3 of the Maryland General Corporate Law, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisitions of our common stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. We intend to give the SEC prior notice should our Board of Directors elect to amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act.. We have also adopted other measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter classifying our Board of Directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions of our charter authorizing our Board of Directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. We may choose to pay dividends in our own common stock, in which case you may be required to pay federal income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive.. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. The Internal Revenue Service has issued guidance on cash/stock dividends paid by publicly traded RICs where the cash component is limited to 20% of the total distribution if certain requirements are satisfied. Stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (including the portion payable in stock) as ordinary income (or, in certain circumstances, long-term capital gain) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we would choose to pay taxable dividends in cash and common stock.. 24. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors and lenders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We may experience cyber security incidents and are subject to cyber security risks.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber attacks. Cyber attacks include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems (e.g., through \"hacking\" or malicious software coding) for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as causing denial-of service attacks on websites (i.e., efforts to make network services unavailable to intended users). Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Cyber security failures or breaches by our Investment Adviser and other service providers (including, but not limited to, accountants, custodians, transfer agents and administrators), and the issuers of securities in which we invest, have the ability to cause disruptions and impact business operations, potentially resulting in financial losses, interference with our ability to calculate its net asset value, impediments to trading, the inability of our stockholders to transact business, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, or additional compliance costs. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred in order to prevent any cyber incidents in the future. While we have established a business continuity plan in the event of, and risk management systems to prevent, such cyber attacks, there are inherent limitations in such plans and systems including the possibility that certain risks have not been identified. Furthermore, we cannot control the cyber security plans and systems put in place by our service providers and issuers in which we invest. We and our stockholders could be negatively impacted as a result.. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, and/or regulatory penalties.. 25. Table of Contents. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends.. Our business is dependent on our Investment Adviser and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be:.  sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;.  natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;.  disease pandemics;.  events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and.  cyber attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies.. There is evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require additional investments by our portfolio companies engaged in the energy business in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. Increases in the cost of energy also could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies' financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Energy companies could also be affected by the potential for lawsuits against or taxes or other regulatory costs imposed on greenhouse gas emitters, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.. Our Investment Adviser and Administrator have the right to resign on 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Investment Adviser and Administrator have the right, under our investment management agreement and administration agreement, respectively, to resign at any time upon not less than 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Investment Adviser or our Administrator resigns, we may not be able to find a replacement or hire internal management or administration with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities or our internal administration activities, as applicable, is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Investment Adviser and its affiliates or our Administrator and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management or administration, whether internal or external, the integration of such management or administration and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Investments. Our investments in portfolio companies are risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment.. Investment in middle-market companies is speculative and involves a number of significant risks including a high degree of risk of credit loss. Middle-market companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment. In addition, they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Middle-market companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. Middle-market companies also generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our Investment Adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies.. Investments in the energy sector are subject to many risks.. We have made certain investments in and relating to the energy sector. The operations of energy companies are subject to many risks inherent in the transporting, processing, storing, distributing, mining or marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, coal, refined petroleum products or other hydrocarbons, or in the exploring, managing or producing of such commodities, including, without limitation: damage to pipelines, storage tanks or related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters or by acts of terrorism, inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment, leaks of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined petroleum products or other hydrocarbons, and fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in the curtailment or suspension of their related operations, any and all of which could adversely affect our portfolio companies in the energy sector. In addition, the energy sector has experienced significant volatility at times, which may occur in the future, and which could negatively affect the returns on any investment made by the Company in this sector. In addition, valuation of certain investments includes the probability weighting of future events which are outside of management's control. The final outcome of such events could increase or decrease the fair value of the investment in a future period.. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial and/or extended decline in crude oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on some of our portfolio companies in the energy sector.. Crude oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile and likely will continue to be volatile given current geopolitical conditions. The prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of crude oil and natural gas; consumer demand for crude oil and natural gas, and market expectations regarding supply and demand. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict price movements. Accordingly, our portfolio companies in the energy sector is at risk for the volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices. A prolonged decline in crude oil and/or natural gas prices may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Cyclicality within the energy sector may adversely affect our business.. Industries within the energy sector are cyclical with fluctuations in commodity prices and demand for commodities driven by a variety of factors. The highly cyclical nature of the industries within the energy sector may lead to volatile changes in commodity prices, which may adversely affect the earnings of energy companies in which we may invest.. 27. Table of Contents. A prolonged continuation of depressed oil and natural gas prices could negatively impact the energy and power industry and energy-related investments within our investment portfolio.. A prolonged continuation of depressed oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect the credit quality and performance of certain of our debt and equity investments in energy and power and related companies. A decrease in credit quality and performance would, in turn, negatively affect the fair value of these investments, which would consequently negatively affect our net asset value. Should a prolonged period of depressed oil and natural gas prices occur, the ability of certain of our portfolio companies in the energy and power and related industries to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders may be adversely affected, which could, in turn, negatively impact their financial condition and their ability to satisfy their debt service and other obligations. Likewise, should a prolonged period of depressed oil and natural gas prices occur, it is possible that the cash flow and profit generating capacity of these portfolio companies could also be adversely affected thereby negatively impacting their ability to pay us dividends or distributions on our investments.. Commodities are subject to many risks that may adversely affect some of our portfolio companies.. The prices of commodities are subject to a variety of factors such as political and regulatory changes, seasonal variations, weather, technology and market conditions. These factors and the volatility of the commodities markets make it extremely difficult to predict price movements. Accordingly, the commodities industry has experienced significant volatility at times, which may occur in the future, and which could negatively affect the returns on any investment made by the Company in this industry.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods if we are required to write down the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold. We may incur additional expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company.. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged and a covenant breach by our portfolio companies may harm our operating results.. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies' ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies' flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company's income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to, among other things, lender liability or fraudulent conveyance claims.. We could, in certain circumstances, become subject to potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our original investment in a portfolio company that experiences severe financial difficulties. For example, we may be adversely affected by laws related to, among other things, fraudulent conveyances, voidable preferences, lender liability, and the bankruptcy court's discretionary power to disallow, subordinate or disenfranchise particular claims or re-characterize investments made in the form of debt as equity contributions.. 28. Table of Contents. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We believe that most of the investments that we may acquire in the future will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be found to be in violation of the 1940 Act provisions applicable to BDCs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. Our portfolio contains a limited number of portfolio companies, which subjects us to a greater risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt securities.. A consequence of the limited number of investments in our portfolio is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if one or more of our significant portfolio company investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one significant investment. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our portfolio could contain relatively few portfolio companies.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment.. We may elect not to make follow-on investments, may be constrained in our ability to employ available funds, or otherwise may lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status.. When we do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. We do not generally take controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. To the extent that we do not hold a controlling equity interest in a portfolio company, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. 29. Table of Contents. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately-held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns.. We have invested and will continue to invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of AIM's investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies.. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately-held companies frequently have less diverse product lines and smaller market presence than public company competitors, which often are larger. These factors could affect our investment returns.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We have invested and intend to invest primarily in mezzanine and senior debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors.. Our incentive fee may induce AIM to make certain investments, including speculative investments.. The incentive fee payable by us to AIM may create an incentive for AIM to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to AIM is determined, which is calculated separately in two components as a percentage of the net investment income (subject to a performance threshold) and as a percentage of the realized gain on invested capital, may encourage our Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common stock, including investors in offerings of common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or warrants representing rights to purchase our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. In addition, AIM receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on net investment income, there is no performance threshold applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, AIM may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns.. 30. Table of Contents. The incentive fee payable by us to AIM also may create an incentive for AIM to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature such as investments with PIK provisions. Under these investments, we would accrue the interest over the life of the investment but would typically not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term or upon the investment being called by the issuer. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our incentive fee, however, includes accrued interest. For the time period between April 1, 2012 and March 31, 2018, the portion of the incentive fee that is attributable to deferred interest, such as PIK, will not be paid to AIM until Apollo Investment receives such interest in cash. Even though such portion of the incentive fee will be paid only when the accrued income is collected, the accrued income is capitalized and included in the calculation of the base management fee. The accrual of incentive fees shall be reversed if such interest is written off in connection with any write-off or similar treatment of the investment. The payment of incentive fees to AIM is made on accruals of expected cash interest. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Thus, while a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash and with respect to which we do not have a formal claw-back right against our Investment Adviser per se, the amount of accrued income to the extent written off in any period will reduce the income in the period in which such write-off was taken and thereby reduce such period's incentive fee payment. However, even if a loan is put on non-accrual status, its capitalized interest will not be reversed and may continue to be included in the calculation of the base management fee based on an estimation of the loan's fair value.. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, will bear our ratable share of any such investment company's expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive fees to AIM with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our common stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of AIM as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest.. We may be obligated to pay our Investment Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss.. Our Investment Adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our pre-incentive fee net investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. Accordingly, since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of our net asset value, decreases in our net asset value make it easier to achieve the performance threshold. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statements of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay AIM incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. In addition, increases in interest rates may increase the amount of incentive fees we pay to our Investment Adviser even though our performance relative to the market has not increased.. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. These risks are likely to be more pronounced for investments in companies located in emerging markets and particularly for middle-market companies in these economies.. Although most of our investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency are subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective.. 31. Table of Contents. Hedging transactions may expose us to additional risks.. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Our ability to engage in hedging transactions may also be adversely affected by recent rules adopted by the CFTC.. While we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce currency exchange rate and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. In addition, it may not be possible to hedge fully or perfectly against currency fluctuations affecting the value of securities denominated in non-U.S. currencies because the value of those securities is likely to fluctuate as a result of factors not related to currency fluctuations. Our ability to engage in hedging transactions may also be adversely affected by recent rules adopted by the CFTC.. New market structure requirements applicable to derivatives could significantly increase the costs of utilizing over-the-counter (\"OTC\") derivatives.. The Dodd-Frank Act enacted, and CFTC and the SEC have issued or proposed rules to implement, both broad new regulatory requirements and broad new structural requirements applicable to OTC derivative markets and, to a lesser extent, listed commodity futures (and futures options) markets.. These changes include, but are not limited to: requirements that many categories of the most liquid OTC derivatives (currently limited to specified interest rate swaps and index credit default swaps) be executed on qualifying, regulated exchanges and be submitted for clearing; real-time public and regulatory reporting of specified information regarding OTC derivative transactions; and enhanced documentation requirements and recordkeeping requirements. Margin requirements for uncleared OTC derivatives and position limits are also expected to be adopted by the CFTC and other regulators in the future.. While these changes are intended to mitigate systemic risk and to enhance transparency and execution quality in the OTC derivative markets, the impact of these changes is not known at this time. Furthermore, \"financial end users,\" such as us, that enter into OTC derivatives that are not cleared will, pending finalization of the applicable regulations, generally be required to provide margin to collateralize their obligations under such derivatives. Under current proposed rules, the level of margin that would be required to be collected in connection with uncleared OTC derivatives is in many cases substantially greater than the level currently required by market participants or clearinghouses.. These changes could significantly increase the costs to us of utilizing OTC derivatives, reduce the level of exposure that we are able to obtain (whether for risk management or investment purposes) through OTC derivatives, and reduce the amounts available to us to make non-derivative investments. These changes could also impair liquidity in certain OTC derivatives and adversely affect the quality of execution pricing that we are able to obtain, all of which could adversely impact our investment returns. Furthermore, the margin requirements for cleared and uncleared OTC derivatives may require that AIM, in order to maintain its relief from the CFTC's CPO registration requirements, limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions or to obtain synthetic investment exposures, in either case adversely affecting our ability to mitigate risk.. Proposed position aggregation requirements may restrict the swap positions that AIM may enter into.. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the scope of the CFTC's authority and obligation to require reporting of, and adopt limits on, the size of positions that market participants may own or control in commodity futures and futures options contracts and swaps. The Dodd-Frank Act also narrowed existing exemptions from such position limits for a broad range of risk management transactions.. 32. Table of Contents. In accordance with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is required to establish speculative position limits on additional listed futures and options on physical commodities and economically equivalent OTC derivatives; position limits applicable to swaps that are economically equivalent to United States listed futures and futures options contracts, including contracts on non-physical commodities, such as rates, currencies, equities and credit default swaps; and aggregate position limits for a broad range of derivatives contracts based on the same underlying commodity, including swaps and futures and futures options contracts.. The full impact of these recent changes is not known at this time. Individually and collectively, these changes could increase our costs of maintaining positions in commodity futures and futures option contracts and swaps and reduce the level of exposure we are able to obtain (whether for risk management or investment purposes) through commodity futures and futures option contracts and swaps. These changes could also impair liquidity in certain swaps and adversely affect the quality of execution pricing that we are able to obtain, all of which could adversely impact our investment returns.. The effects of various environmental regulations may negatively affect the aviation industry and some of our portfolio companies.. The effects of various environmental regulations may negatively affect the airline industry. This may adversely affect some of our portfolio companies. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant aircraft is registered and operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization (\"ICAO\") have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which applies to engines manufactured or certified on or after January 1, 2006. Currently, U.S. regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards applicable to engines manufactured or certified prior to January 1, 2006, but the EU has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards and incorporated aviation-related emissions into the EU's Emissions Trading Scheme (\"ETS\") beginning in 2012.. In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with current ICAO standards. Concerns over global warming also could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of aircraft.. The United States aviation industry is extensively regulated by government agencies, particularly the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board. New air travel regulations have been, and management anticipates will continue to be, implemented that could have a negative impact on airline and airport revenues. Continued increased regulations of the aviation industry, or a continued downturn in the aviation industry's economic situation, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity. The European Parliament has confirmed that all emissions from flights within the EU are subject to the ETS requirement, even those emissions that are emitted outside of the EU. The EU suspended the enforcement of the ETS requirements for international flights outside of the EU due to a proposal issued by the ICAO in October 2013 to develop a global program to reduce international aviation emissions, which would be enforced by 2020. In response to this, the European Commission has proposed to amend the ETS so that only flights or portions thereof that take place in European regional airspace are subject to the ETS requirements. The potential impact of ETS and the forthcoming ICAO requirements on costs have not been completely identified. Any of these regulations could limit the economic life of the aircraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our portfolio companies' ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require our portfolio companies to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. In addition, compliance with current or future regulations, taxes or duties imposed to deal with environmental concerns could cause our portfolio companies to incur higher costs, thereby generating lower net revenues and resulting in an adverse impact on the financial condition of such portfolio companies.. 33. Table of Contents. Our investments in the healthcare and pharmaceutical services industry sector are subject to extensive government regulation and certain other risks particular to that industry.. We invest in healthcare and pharmaceutical services. Our investments in portfolio companies that operate in this sector are subject to certain significant risks particular to that industry. The laws and rules governing the business of healthcare companies and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. Broad latitude is given to the agencies administering those regulations. Existing or future laws and rules could force our portfolio companies engaged in healthcare to change how they do business, restrict revenue, increase costs, change reserve levels and change business practices. Healthcare companies often must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of their products, change prices for certain regulated products and consummate some of their acquisitions and divestitures. Delays in obtaining or failing to obtain or maintain these approvals could reduce revenue or increase costs. Policy changes on the local, state and federal level, such as the expansion of the government's role in the healthcare arena and alternative assessments and tax increases specific to the healthcare industry or healthcare products as part of federal health care reform initiatives, could fundamentally change the dynamics of the healthcare industry. In particular, health insurance reform, including The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or Health Insurance Reform Legislation, could have a significant effect on our portfolio companies in this industry sector. As Health Insurance Reform Legislation is implemented, our portfolio companies in this industry sector may be forced to change how they do business. We can give no assurance that these portfolio companies will be able to adapt successfully in response to these changes. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in this industry sector and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us.. Risks Relating to our Debt Instruments. Our senior secured credit facility begins amortizing in January 2021 and any inability to renew, extend or replace the facility could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to find new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders.. On December 22, 2016, the Company amended and restated its senior secured, multi-currency, revolving credit facility (the \"Senior Secured Facility\") from the previous April 24, 2015 amendment. The amended and restated agreement decreased the lenders' commitments from $1.31 billion to $1.14 billion, extended the final maturity date through December 22, 2021, and included an accordion provision which allows the Company to increase the total commitments under the existing revolving facility up to an aggregate principal amount of $1.965 billion from new or existing lenders on the same terms and conditions as the existing commitments. On August 29, 2017, the Company entered into an amendment to its Senior Secured Facility to increase the multicurrency commitments under the Senior Secured Facility by $50 million from $1.14 billion to $1.19 billion pursuant to the accordion provisions therein. The Senior Secured Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets in the Company's portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents. Commencing January 31, 2021, the Company is required to repay, in twelve consecutive monthly installments of equal size, the outstanding amount under the Senior Secured Facility as of December 22, 2020. In addition, the stated interest rate on the facility remains as a formula-based calculation based on a minimum borrowing base, resulting in a stated interest rate, depending on the type of borrowing, of (a) either LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum or LIBOR plus 2.00% per annum, or (b) either Alternate Base Rate plus 0.75% per annum or Alternate Base Rate plus 1% per annum. Alternate Base Rate means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the rate per annum equal to 1% plus the rate appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on such day, for US Dollar deposits with a term of one month. As of March 31, 2018, the stated interest rate on the facility was LIBOR plus 2.00%. The Company is required to pay a commitment fee of 0.375% per annum on any unused portion of the Senior Secured Facility and participation fees and fronting fees totaling 2.25% per annum on the letters of credit issued.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the Senior Secured Facility upon the termination of the lenders' obligations to make new loans or the Senior Secured Facility's final maturity on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to renew, extend or replace the Senior Secured Facility will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to renew, extend or replace the Senior Secured Facility at the time of the termination of the lenders' obligations to make new loans or the Senior Secured Facility's final maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC.. 34. Table of Contents. Our senior secured notes and unsecured notes have maturity dates over the course of the next several years, and any inability to replace or repay our senior secured notes or unsecured notes could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders.. On September 29, 2011, the Company closed a private offering of $45 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes consisting of two series: $29 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% Senior Secured Notes, Series A, due September 29, 2016 (the \"Series A Notes\"); and $16 million aggregate principal amount of 6.250% Senior Secured Notes, Series B, due September 29, 2018 (the \"Series B Notes\"). On September 29, 2016, the Series A Notes, which had an outstanding principal balance of $29 million, matured and were repaid in full.. On October 9, 2012, the Company issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior unsecured notes due October 15, 2042 (the \"2042 Notes\"). On June 17, 2013, the Company issued $135 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior unsecured notes due July 15, 2043 (the \"2043 Notes\"). On June 24, 2013, an additional $15 million aggregate principal amount of the 2043 Notes was issued pursuant to the underwriters' over-allotment option exercise. On March 3, 2015, the Company issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of 5.250% senior unsecured notes due March 3, 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\"). On October 16, 2017, the Company redeemed the entire $150 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2042 Notes in accordance with the terms of the indenture governing the 2042 Notes, before its stated maturity date.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace the Series B Notes, the 2043 Notes or the 2025 Notes upon their maturity on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to replace the Series B Notes, the 2043 Notes or the 2025 Notes will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to replace or repay the Series B Notes, the 2043 Notes or the 2025 Notes at the time of their maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC.. The trading market or market value of our debt securities may fluctuate.. Our publicly issued debt securities may or may not have an established trading market. We cannot assure you that a trading market for debt securities will ever develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, debt securities we may issue. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:.  the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities;.  the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities;.  the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies;.  the general economic environment;.  the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any;.  the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt securities;.  the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and.  market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities.. You should also be aware that there may be a limited number of buyers if and when you decide to sell your debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities.. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on any debt securities that we may issue.. If our noteholders' debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem your debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In addition, if our noteholders' debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem such debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on such debt securities. In this circumstance, a noteholder may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the debt securities being redeemed.. 35. Table of Contents. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities.. Our credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for the publicly issued debt securities.. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Common Stock. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, therefore, an investment in our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low risk tolerance.. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and that investors in our debt securities may not receive all of the interest income to which they are entitled.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may in the future be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, our revolving credit facility may limit our ability to declare dividends if we default under certain provisions or fail to satisfy certain other conditions. If we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including possible loss of the tax benefits available to us as a RIC. In addition, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and tax regulations, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance that becomes due at the end of the loan term, or the accrual of original issue or market discount. Since we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to obtain tax benefits as a RIC.. We will be subject to a 4% non-deductible federal excise tax on certain undistributed income of RICs unless we distribute in a timely manner an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98% of our ordinary income for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income for the one-year period ending October 31 in that calendar year and (3) any income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding years. We will not be subject to excise taxes on amounts on which we are required to pay corporate income taxes (such as retained net capital gains). Finally, if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to liquidate some of our investments and raise cash in order to make cash distribution payments.. Our shares may trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term.. Shares of BDCs may trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. The possibility that our shares of common stock will trade at a discount from net asset value or at a premium that is unsustainable over the long term are separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. It is not possible to predict whether shares will trade at, above, or below net asset value.. 36. Table of Contents. Investigations and reviews of Apollo affiliates' use of placement agents could harm Apollo Investment's reputation, depress its stock price or have other negative consequences.. While Apollo Investment has not, to date, raised any funds through the use of placement agents (other than through the ordinary course of engagement of underwriters, from time to time, in connection with the public offering of Apollo Investment's securities), affiliates of AIM sometimes use placement agents to assist in marketing certain of the investment funds that they manage. Various state attorneys general and federal and state agencies have initiated industry-wide investigations into the use of placement agents in connection with the solicitation of investments, particularly with respect to investments by public pension funds. Certain affiliates of AGM have received subpoenas and other requests for information from various government regulatory agencies and investors in AGM's funds, seeking information regarding the use of placement agents. California Public Employees' Retirement System (\"CalPERS\"), one of AGM's strategic investors, announced on October 14, 2009 that it had initiated a special review of placement agents and related issues. The report of the CalPERS special review was issued on March 14, 2011. That report does not allege any wrongdoing on the part of AGM or its affiliates. AGM is continuing to cooperate with all such investigations and other reviews. In addition, on May 6, 2010, the California Attorney General filed a civil complaint against Alfred Villalobos and his company, Arvco Capital Research, LLC (\"Arvco\"), a placement agent that AGM has used, and Federico Buenrostro Jr., the former CEO of CalPERS, alleging conduct in violation of certain California laws in connection with CalPERS's purchase of securities in various funds managed by AGM and another asset manager. None of Apollo Investment, AIM or AGM are parties to the civil lawsuit, and the lawsuit does not allege any misconduct on the part of Apollo Investment, AIM or AGM. Likewise, on April 23, 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit alleging securities fraud on the part of Arvco, as well as Messrs. Buenrostro and Villalobos, in connection with their activities concerning certain CalPERS investments in funds managed by AGM. This lawsuit also does not allege wrongdoing on the part of AGM, and in fact alleges that AGM was defrauded by Arvco, Villalobos, and Buenrostro. On March 14, 2013, the United States Department of Justice unsealed an indictment against Messrs. Villalobos and Buenrostro alleging, among other crimes, fraud in connection with those same activities; again, AGM is not accused of any wrongdoing and in fact is alleged to have been defrauded by the defendants. The criminal action was set for trial in a San Francisco federal court in July 2014, but was put on hold after Mr. Buenrostro pleaded guilty on July 11, 2014. As part of Mr. Buenrostro's plea agreement, he admitted to taking cash and other bribes from Mr. Villalobos in exchange for several improprieties, including attempting to influence CalPERS' investing decisions and improperly preparing disclosure letters to satisfy AGM's requirements. There is no suggestion that AGM was aware that Mr. Buenrostro had signed the letters with a corrupt motive. The government has indicated that they will file new charges against Mr. Villalobos incorporating Mr. Buenrostro's admissions. On August 7, 2014, the government filed a superseding indictment against Mr. Villalobos asserting additional charges. The trial had been scheduled for February 23, 2015, but Mr. Villalobos passed away on January 13, 2015. Additionally, on April 15, 2013, Mr. Villalobos, Arvco and related entities (the \"Arvco Debtors\") brought a civil action in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Nevada (the \"Bankruptcy Court\") against AGM. The action is related to the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings of the Arvco Debtors. This action alleges that Arvco served as a placement agent for AGM in connection with several funds associated with AGM, and seeks to recover purported fees the Arvco Debtors claim AGM has not paid them for a portion of Arvco's placement agent services. In addition, the Arvco Debtors allege that AGM has interfered with the Arvco Debtors' commercial relationships with third parties, purportedly causing the Arvco Debtors to lose business and to incur fees and expenses in the defense of various investigations and litigations. The Arvco Debtors also seek compensation from AGM for these alleged lost profits and fees and expenses. The Arvco Debtors' complaint asserts various theories of recovery under the Bankruptcy Code and common law. AGM denies the merit of all of the Arvco Debtors' claims and will vigorously contest them. The Bankruptcy Court had stayed this action pending the result in the criminal case against Mr. Villalobos but lifted the stay on May 1, 2015; in light of Mr. Villalobos's death, the criminal case was dismissed. On August 25, 2016, Christina Lovato, in her capacity as the Chapter 7 Trustee for the Arvco Debtors, filed an amended complaint. On March 20, 2017, the court granted Apollo's motion to dismiss the equitable claims asserted in the amended complaint, leaving just two breach of contract claims remaining. On October 20, 2017, Apollo moved for summary judgment as to the trustee's remaining claims and a counterclaim by Apollo that seeks indemnification for attorneys' fees and expenses. No estimate of possible loss, if any, can be made at this time.. 37. Table of Contents. The market price of our securities may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:.  volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;.  changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies;.  the inclusion or exclusion of our common stock from certain indices;.  changes in law, regulatory policies or tax guidelines, or interpretations thereof, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs;.  loss of RIC status;.  changes in earnings or variations in operating results;.  changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;.  any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;.  departure of AIM's key personnel;.  operating performance of companies comparable to us;.  short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally;.  uncertainty surrounding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery;.  concerns regarding volatility in the Chinese stock market and Chinese currency;.  concerns regarding continued volatility of oil prices;.  general economic trends and other external factors; and.  loss of a major funding source.. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds raised from offerings on acceptable terms, which would harm our financial condition and operating results.. Until we identify new investment opportunities, we intend to either invest the net proceeds of future offerings in interest-bearing deposits or other short-term instruments or use the net proceeds from such offerings to reduce then-outstanding obligations under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find enough appropriate investments that meet our investment criteria or that any investment we complete using the proceeds from an offering will produce a sufficient return.. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities, or the availability of such securities for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our securities. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so.. If you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering of our common stock, your interest in us may be diluted and, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, you may experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of your shares.. In the event we issue subscription rights to acquire shares of our common stock, stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of the rights offering, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would be the case if they fully exercised their rights. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, a stockholder who does not fully exercise its subscription rights may experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of its shares as a result of the offering. We would not be able to state the amount of any such dilution prior to knowing the results of the offering. Such dilution could be substantial.. 38. Table of Contents. Stockholders may experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.. All distributions declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are generally automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, stockholders that do not participate in the dividend reinvestment plan may experience dilution over time. Stockholders who do not elect to receive distributions in shares of common stock may experience accretion to the net asset value of their shares if our shares are trading at a premium and dilution if our shares are trading at a discount. The level of accretion or discount would depend on various factors, including the proportion of our stockholders who participate in the plan, the level of premium or discount at which our shares are trading and the amount of the distribution payable to a stockholder."
