[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The Company has identified the following significant risk factors which may affect, among other things, the Company's business, financial position, results of operations, operating cash flow, market value, and ability to service its debt obligations and make distributions to its shareholders.  You should carefully consider the risks described below and the risks disclosed in other filings with the SEC, in addition to the other information contained in this report.. Risks Related to the Company's Business and Operations. The Company is subject to various risks which are common to the hotel industry on a national, regional and local market basis that are beyond its control and could adversely affect its business.. The success of the Company's hotels depends largely on the hotel operators' ability to adapt to dominant trends and risks in the hotel industry, both nationally and in individual local markets.  These risks could adversely affect hotel occupancy and the rates that can be charged for hotel rooms as well as hotel operating expenses.  The following is a summary of risks that may affect the hotel industry in general and as a result may affect the Company:.     an increase in supply of hotel rooms that exceeds increases in demand;.     competition from other hotels and lodging alternatives in the markets in which the Company operates;.     dependence on business and leisure travel;.     increases in energy costs and other travel expenses, which may affect travel patterns and reduce business and leisure travel;.     reduced business and leisure travel due to geo-political uncertainty, including terrorism, travel-related health concerns, including the widespread outbreak of infectious or contagious diseases in the U.S., inclement weather conditions, including natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and airline strikes or disruptions;.     reduced travel due to adverse national, regional or local economic and market conditions;.     seasonality of the hotel industry may cause quarterly fluctuations in operating results;.     changes in marketing and distribution for the industry including the cost and the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers;.     changes in hotel room demand in a local market;.     ability of a hotel franchise to fulfill its obligations to franchisees;.     brand expansion;.     the performance of third-party managers of the Company's hotels;.     increases in operating costs, including increases in the cost of property insurance, utilities and real estate and personal property taxes, due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;.     labor shortages and increases in the cost of labor due to low unemployment rates or to government regulations surrounding wage rates, health care coverage and other benefits;. 9. Index.     changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with applicable laws and regulations;.     business interruptions due to cyber-attacks;.     requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to repair and upgrade hotels;.     limited alternative uses for the hotel buildings;.     condemnation or uninsured losses; and.     adverse effects of a downturn in the hospitality industry.. Any of these factors may reduce operating results and the value of properties that the Company owns.  Additionally, these items, among others, may reduce the availability of capital to the Company.. Adverse economic conditions in the United States and individual markets may adversely affect the Company's business operations and financial performance.. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy both nationally and within local markets in the United States.  The lodging industry is also sensitive to government, business and personal discretionary spending levels.  Declines in government and corporate budgets and consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions can lower the revenue and profitability of the Company's hotels and therefore the net operating profits of its investments.  A slowing of the current economic growth or new economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenue and negatively affect its profitability.  Furthermore, even if the economy in the United States in general continues to improve, the Company cannot provide any assurances that demand for hotels will increase from current levels, nationally or more specifically regionally, where the Company's properties are located.. In addition, many of the expenses associated with the Company's business, including personnel costs, interest expense, ground leases, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed.  During a period of overall economic weakness, if the Company is unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for its hotels decreases, the Company's business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected.. The Company is affected by restrictions in, and compliance with, its franchise and license agreements.. The Company's wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\") (or subsidiaries thereof) operate all of the hotels pursuant to franchise or license agreements with nationally recognized hotel brands.  These franchise and license agreements contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, the operation and maintenance of the Company's hotels in order to maintain uniformity within the franchisor system.  The Company may be required to incur costs to comply with these standards and these standards could potentially conflict with the Company's ability to create specific business plans tailored to each property and to each market.  Failure to comply with these brand standards may result in termination of the applicable franchise or license agreement.  If the Company were to lose a franchise or license agreement, the Company would be required to re-brand the hotel, which could result in a decline in the value of the hotel, the loss of marketing support and participation in guest loyalty programs, and harm the Company's relationship with the franchisor, impeding the Company's ability to operate other hotels under the same brand.  Additionally, the franchise and license agreements have provisions that could limit the Company's ability to sell or finance a hotel which could further affect the Company.. All of the Company's hotels operate under either Marriott or Hilton brands; therefore, the Company is subject to risks associated with concentrating its portfolio in only two brand families.. All of the hotels that the Company owned as of December 31, 2017 operate under brands owned by Marriott or Hilton.  As a result, the Company's success is dependent in part on the continued success of Marriott and Hilton and their respective brands.  The Company believes that building brand value is critical to increase demand and strengthen customer loyalty. Consequently, if market recognition or the positive perception of Marriott and/or Hilton is reduced or compromised, the goodwill associated with the Marriott and Hilton branded hotels in the Company's portfolio may be adversely affected.  Also, if Marriott and Hilton alter certain policies, including their respective guest loyalty programs, this could reduce the Company's future revenues.  Furthermore, if the Company's relationship with Marriott or Hilton were to deteriorate or terminate as a result of disputes regarding the Company's hotels or for other reasons, Marriott and/or Hilton could, under certain circumstances, terminate the Company's current franchise. 10. Index. licenses with them or decline to provide franchise licenses for hotels that the Company may acquire in the future.  If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Competition in the markets where the Company owns hotels may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The hotel industry is highly competitive.  Each of the Company's hotels competes for guests primarily with other hotels in its immediate vicinity and secondarily with other hotels in its geographic market.  The Company also competes with numerous owners and operators of vacation ownership resorts, as well as alternative lodging companies, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, which operate websites that market available furnished, privately-owned residential properties, including homes and condominiums, that can be rented on a nightly, weekly or monthly basis.  An increase in the number of competitive hotels, vacation ownership resorts and alternative lodging arrangements in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on the occupancy, ADR and RevPAR of the Company's hotels in that area.. The Company is dependent on third-party hotel managers to operate its hotels and could be adversely affected if such managers do not manage the hotels successfully.. To maintain its status as a REIT, the Company is not permitted to operate any of its hotels.  As a result, the Company has entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate its hotels.  For this reason, the Company's ability to direct and control how its hotels are operated is less than if the Company were able to manage its hotels directly.  Under the terms of the hotel management agreements, the Company's ability to participate in operating decisions regarding its hotels is limited to certain matters, and it does not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner (for instance, setting room rates).  The Company does not supervise any of the hotel managers or their respective personnel on a day-to-day basis.  The Company cannot be assured that the hotel managers will manage its hotels in a manner that is consistent with their respective obligations under the applicable management agreement or the Company's obligations under its hotel franchise agreements.  The Company could be materially and adversely affected if any of its third-party managers fail to effectively manage revenues and expenses, provide quality services and amenities, or otherwise fail to manage its hotels in its best interest, and may be financially responsible for the actions and inactions of the managers.  In certain situations, the Company may terminate the management agreement.  However, the Company can provide no assurances that it could identify a replacement manager, that the franchisor will consent to the replacement manager, or that the replacement manager will manage the hotel successfully.  A failure by the Company's hotel managers to successfully manage its hotels could lead to an increase in its operating expenses or decrease in its revenues, or both.. The growth of lodging distribution channels could adversely affect the Company's business and profitability.. Although a majority of rooms sold are sold through the hotel franchisors' channels, a growing number of the Company's hotel rooms are sold through other channels or intermediaries.  Rooms sold through non-franchisors' channels are generally less profitable (after associated fees) than rooms sold through franchisors' channels.  Although the Company's franchisors may have established agreements with many of these alternative channels or intermediaries that limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that the Company's franchisors will be able to renegotiate such agreements upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that exist today.  Moreover, alternative channels or intermediaries may employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites.  As a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to those of the Company's franchisors.  If this happens, the Company's business and profitability may be significantly negatively impacted.. Renovations and capital improvements may reduce the Company's profitability.. The Company has ongoing needs for hotel renovations and capital improvements, including requirements under all of its hotel franchise and management agreements and certain loan agreements to maintain the hotels.  In addition, from time to time the Company will need to make renovations and capital improvements to comply with applicable laws and regulations, to remain competitive with other hotels and to maintain the economic value of its hotels.  The Company also may need to make significant capital improvements to hotels that it acquires.  Occupancy and ADR are often affected by the maintenance and capital improvements at a hotel, especially in the event that the. 11. Index. maintenance or improvements are not completed on schedule, or if the improvements require significant disruptions at the hotel.  The costs of capital improvements the Company needs or chooses to make could reduce the funds available for other purposes and may reduce the Company's profitability.. Certain hotels are subject to ground leases that may affect the Company's ability to use the hotel or restrict its ability to sell the hotel.. As of December 31, 2017, 14 of the Company's hotels were subject to ground leases.  Accordingly, the Company effectively only owns a long-term leasehold interest in these hotels.  If the Company is found to be in breach of a ground lease, it could lose the right to use the hotel.  In addition, unless the Company can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or renew the terms of these leases before their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, the Company will lose its right to operate these properties and its interest in the property, including any investment that it made in the property.  The Company's ability to exercise any extension options relating to its ground leases is subject to the condition that the Company is not in default under the terms of the ground lease at the time that it exercises such options, and the Company can provide no assurances that it will be able to exercise any available options at such time.  If the Company were to lose the right to use a hotel due to a breach or non-renewal of a ground lease, it would be unable to derive income from such hotel.  Finally, the Company may not be permitted to sell or finance a hotel subject to a ground lease without the consent of the lessor.. The Company may not be able to complete hotel dispositions when and as anticipated.. The Company continually monitors the profitability of its hotels, market conditions, and capital requirements and attempts to maximize shareholder value by timely disposal of its hotels.  Real estate investments are, in general, relatively difficult to sell due to, among other factors, the size of the required investment and the volatility in availability of adequate financing for a potential buyer.  This illiquidity will tend to limit the Company's ability to promptly vary its portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions.  Additionally, factors specific to an individual property, such as its specific market and operating performance, restrictions in franchise and management agreements, debt secured by the property, a ground lease, or capital expenditure needs may further increase the difficulty in selling a property.  Therefore, the Company cannot predict whether it will be able to sell any hotels for the price or on the terms set by the Company, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to the Company.  In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") relating to REITs have certain limits on the Company's ability to sell hotels.. Real estate impairment losses may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of changes in an individual hotel's operating results or to the Company's planned hold period for a hotel, the Company may be required to record an impairment loss for a property.  The Company analyzes its hotel properties individually for indicators of impairment throughout the year.  The Company records impairment losses on a hotel property if indicators of impairment are present, and the sum of the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by the respective property over its estimated remaining useful life, based on historical and industry data, is less than the property's carrying amount.  Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, a property with current or potential losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a property will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life or when events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable.. The Company's failure to identify and complete accretive acquisitions may adversely affect the profitability of the Company.. The Company's business strategy includes identifying and completing accretive hotel acquisitions.  The Company competes with other investors who are engaged in the acquisition of hotels, and these competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics and, accordingly, increase the price the Company must pay for hotels it seeks to acquire, and these competitors may succeed in acquiring those hotels.  Any delay or failure on the Company's part to identify, negotiate, finance on favorable terms, consummate and integrate such acquisitions could materially impede the Company's growth.  The Company may also incur costs that it cannot recover if it abandons a potential acquisition.  If the Company does not reinvest proceeds received from hotel dispositions timely, it could result in lower income.  The Company's profitability may also suffer because future acquisitions of hotels may not yield the returns the Company expects and the integration of such acquisitions may cause disruptions in the Company's business and to management or may take longer than projected.. 12. Index. The Company's inability to obtain financing on favorable terms or pay amounts due on its financing may adversely affect the Company's operating results.. Although the Company anticipates maintaining relatively low levels of debt, it may periodically use financing to acquire properties, perform renovations to its properties, or make shareholder distributions or share repurchases in periods of fluctuating income from its properties.  The credit markets have historically been volatile and subject to increased regulation in recent years, and as a result, the Company may not be able to obtain debt financing to meet its cash requirements, including refinancing any scheduled debt maturities, which may adversely affect its ability to execute its business strategy.  If the Company refinances debt, such refinancing may not be in the same amount or on terms as favorable as the terms of the existing debt being refinanced.  If the Company is unable to refinance its debt, it may be forced to dispose of hotels or issue equity at inopportune times or on disadvantageous terms, which could result in higher costs of capital.. The Company is also subject to risks associated with increases in interest rates with respect to the Company's floating rate debt which could reduce cash from operations.  In addition, the Company has used interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risks on a portion of its variable rate debt, and in the future it may use hedging arrangements, such as interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate volatility.  The Company's actual hedging decisions are determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge.  There is no assurance that the Company's hedging strategy will achieve its objectives, and the Company may be subject to costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if it terminates these arrangements.. Compliance with financial and other covenants in the Company's existing or future debt agreements may reduce operational flexibility and create default risk.. The Company's existing indebtedness, whether secured by mortgages on certain properties or unsecured, contains, and indebtedness that the Company may enter into in the future likely will contain, customary covenants that may restrict the Company's operations and limit its ability to enter into future indebtedness.  In addition, the Company's ability to borrow under its unsecured credit facilities is subject to compliance with its financial and other covenants, including, among others, a minimum tangible net worth, maximum debt limits, minimum interest and fixed charge coverage ratios, limits on dividend payments and share repurchases and restrictions on certain investments.  The Company's failure to comply with the covenants in its existing or future indebtedness, as well as its inability to make required principal and interest payments, could cause a default under the applicable debt agreement, which could result in the acceleration of the debt and require the Company to repay such debt with capital obtained from other sources, which may not be available to the Company or may be available only on unfavorable terms.. If the Company defaults on its secured debt, lenders can take possession of the property or properties securing such debt.  As a general policy, the Company seeks to obtain mortgages securing indebtedness which encumber only the particular property to which the indebtedness relates, but recourse on these loans may include all of its assets.  If recourse on any loan incurred by the Company to acquire or refinance any particular property includes all of its assets, the equity in other properties could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on that loan.  If a loan is secured by a mortgage on a single property, the Company could lose that property through foreclosure if it defaults on that loan.  If the Company defaults under a loan, it is possible that it could become involved in litigation related to matters concerning the loan, and such litigation could result in significant costs.  Additionally, defaulting under a loan may damage the Company's reputation as a borrower and may limit its ability to secure financing in the future.. Technology is used in operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm the business.. The Company and its hotel managers and franchisors rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, reservations, billing and operating data.  Some of the information technology is purchased from third party vendors, on whom the systems depend.  The Company and its hotel managers and franchisors rely on commercially available and internally developed systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential operator and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts.  Although the Company and its hotel managers and franchisors have taken steps necessary to protect the security of their information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is. 13. Index. possible that the safety and security measures taken will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks.  Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of information systems could interrupt operations, damage reputation, subject the Company to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. Potential losses not covered by insurance may adversely affect the Company's financial condition.. The Company maintains comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of its hotels.  These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that the Company believes are customary for similar types of properties.  There are no assurances that coverage will be available or at reasonable rates in the future.  Also, various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable.  Even when insurable, these policies may have high deductibles and/or high premiums.  Additionally, although the Company may be insured for a particular loss, the Company is not insured against the impact a catastrophic event may have on the industry as a whole.  There also can be risks such as certain environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall outside of the coverage.  In the event of a substantial loss, the Company's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of its lost investment.  Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel.  In that event, the Company might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the hotel.  Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also prevent the Company from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed.  The Company also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that the Company believes to be covered under its policy.  Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds the Company receives might be inadequate to restore its economic position in the damaged or destroyed hotel, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change.. The Company is subject to the risks associated with the physical effects of climate change, which could include more frequent or severe storms, droughts, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's properties, operations and business.  To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, its markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels causing damage to the Company's properties.  Over time, these conditions could result in declining hotel demand or the Company's inability to operate the affected hotels at all.  Climate change also may have indirect effects on its business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms the Company finds acceptable, as well as increasing the cost of renovations, energy, water and snow removal at its properties.  The Company cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate, and therefore, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company could incur significant, material costs related to government regulation and litigation with respect to environmental matters, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's hotels are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws that impose liability for contamination.  Under these laws, governmental entities have the authority to require the Company, as the current owner of a hotel, to perform or pay for the clean-up of contamination (including hazardous substances, asbestos and asbestos-containing materials, waste, petroleum products or mold) at, on, under or emanating from the hotel and to pay for natural resource damages arising from such contamination.  Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator or other responsible party knew of, or caused such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several.  Because these laws also impose liability on persons who owned or operated a property at the time it became contaminated, it is possible the Company could incur cleanup costs or other environmental liabilities even after it sells or no longer operates hotels.  Contamination at, on, under or emanating from the Company's hotels also may expose it to liability to private parties for costs of remediation, personal injury and/or property damage.  In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the. 14. Index. government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination.  If contamination is discovered on the Company's properties, environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which the properties may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures.  Moreover, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner's ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property on favorable terms or at all.  Furthermore, persons who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, may be liable for costs associated with cleanup of that facility.. In addition, the Company's hotels are subject to various U.S. federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that address a wide variety of issues, including, but not limited to, storage tanks, air emissions from emergency generators, storm water and wastewater discharges, lead-based paint, mold and mildew, and waste management.  Some of the Company's hotels routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations, which substances and wastes are subject to regulation (e.g., swimming pool chemicals and cleaning supplies).  The Company's hotels incur costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable requirements.. Liabilities and costs associated with environmental contamination at, on, under or emanating from the hotel's properties, defending against claims related to alleged or actual environmental issues, or complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could be material and could materially and adversely affect the Company.  The Company can make no assurances that changes in current laws or regulations or future laws or regulations will not impose additional or new material environmental liabilities or that the current environmental condition of its hotels will not be affected by its operations, the condition of the properties in the vicinity of its hotels, or by third parties unrelated to the Company.  The discovery of material environmental liabilities at its properties could subject the Company to unanticipated significant costs, which could significantly reduce or eliminate its profitability.. The Company may incur significant costs complying with various regulatory requirements, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company and its hotels are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulatory requirements.  These requirements are wide ranging and include among others, state and local fire and life safety requirements, federal laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Accessibility Guidelines promulgated thereunder and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Liability and costs associated with complying with these requirements are and could be material.  If the Company fails to comply with these various requirements, it could incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, existing requirements could change and future requirements might require the Company to make significant unanticipated expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company is currently party to litigation and may be subject to litigation or regulatory inquiries in the future, which may require the Company to incur significant costs.. The Company is currently subject to litigation.  See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information pertaining to this litigation.  Due to the uncertainties related to litigation, the Company is unable at this time to evaluate the likelihood of either a favorable or unfavorable outcome or to estimate the range of potential exposure.  If the outcome is unfavorable, the Company may be required to pay damages and/or change its business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Also, other litigation may be filed against the Company in the future.  The ability of the Company to access capital markets, including commercial debt markets, could be negatively impacted by unfavorable, or the possibility of unfavorable, outcomes to lawsuits or adverse regulatory actions.. The Company has been and could be subject to regulatory inquiries in the future, which have resulted in and which could result in costs and personnel time commitment to respond.  It may also be subject to additional investigations and action by governing regulatory agencies, as a result of its activities, which could result in costs to respond and fines or changes in the Company's business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, and cash flows of the Company.. 15. Index. Risks Related to the Company's Organization and Structure. The Company's ownership limitations may restrict or prevent certain acquisitions and transfers of its shares.. In order for the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of its outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following the Company's first year (the \"5/50 Test\").  Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own the Company's shares during at least 335 days of each taxable year (the \"100 Shareholder Test\"). The Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorizes the Company's Board of Directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve its qualification as a REIT.  In addition to the 5/50 Test and the 100 Shareholder Test, the Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that no person or entity may directly or indirectly, beneficially or constructively, own more than 9.8% of the aggregate of its outstanding common shares or 9.8% of the aggregate of the outstanding preferred shares of any class or series (\"share ownership limits\").  The Company's Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, grant an exemption to the share ownership limits, subject to certain conditions and the receipt by the Board of Directors of certain representations and undertakings.  In addition, the Board of Directors may change the share ownership limits.  The share ownership limits contained in the amended and restated articles of incorporation key off the ownership at any time by any \"person,\" which term includes entities, and take into account direct and indirect ownership as determined under various ownership attribution rules in the Code.  The share ownership limits also might delay or prevent a transaction or a change in the Company's control that might involve a premium price for the Company's common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of its shareholders.. The Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation allow the Board of Directors to issue up to 30 million \"blank check\" preferred shares.. The Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation allow the Board of Directors to issue up to 30 million \"blank check\" preferred shares, without action by shareholders.  Preferred shares may be issued on terms determined by the Board of Directors, and may have rights, privileges and preferences superior to those of common shares.  Without limiting the foregoing, (i) such preferred shares could have liquidation rights that are senior to the liquidation preference applicable to common shares, (ii) such preferred shares could have voting or conversion rights, which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common shares and (iii) the ownership interest of holders of common shares will be diluted following the issuance of any such preferred shares.  In addition, the issuance of blank check preferred shares could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of the Company.. Provisions of the Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws could inhibit changes in control.. Provisions in the Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws may make it difficult for another company to acquire it and for shareholders to receive any related takeover premium for its common shares.  These provisions include, among other things, a staggered Board of Directors in which the Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with one class elected each year to serve a three-year term, and the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors.  The Company intends to submit a proposal to the Company's shareholders at the 2018 annual meeting of shareholders to further amend the Company's amended and restated articles of incorporation to, among other things, destagger the Board of Directors and provide that all directors serve a one-year term.  In addition, pursuant to the Company's second amended and restated bylaws, directors are elected by the plurality of votes cast and entitled to vote in the election of directors.  However, the Company's corporate governance guidelines require that if an incumbent director fails to receive at least a majority of the votes cast, such director will tender his or her resignation from the Board of Directors.  The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors will consider, and determine whether to accept, such resignation.  Additionally, the second amended and restated bylaws of the Company have various advance notice provisions that require shareholders to meet certain requirements and deadlines for proposals at an annual meeting of shareholders.  These advance notice provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium to the price of the Company's common shares or otherwise be in the shareholders' best interests.. 16. Index. The Company's Executive Chairman has interests that may conflict with the interests of the Company.. Glade M. Knight, the Company's Executive Chairman, is and will be a principal in other real estate investment transactions or programs that may compete with the Company, and he is and may be a principal in other business ventures.  Mr. Knight's management and economic interests in these other transactions or programs may conflict with the interests of the Company.. The Company's executive officers provide services to other companies that may detract from the time devoted to the Company.. The Company's executive officers and other employees of the Company may devote time to other companies which have been or may be organized by Mr. Knight in the future.  Neither Mr. Knight nor any of the other executive officers is required to devote a fixed amount of time and attention to the Company's business affairs as opposed to the other companies, which could detract from time devoted to the Company.. The Company may change its operational policies, investment guidelines and its investment and growth strategies without shareholder consent, which may subject it to different and more significant risks in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Board of Directors determines the Company's operational policies, investment guidelines and its investment and growth strategies, subject to the restrictions on certain transactions as set forth in the second amended and restated bylaws.  The Board of Directors may make changes to, or approve transactions that deviate from, those policies, guidelines and strategies without a vote of, or notice to, shareholders.  This could result in the Company conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing investment or growth strategies different than those contemplated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Under any of these circumstances, the Company may expose itself to different and more significant risks in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the Company.. Risks Related to the Ownership of the Company's Common Shares. The market price of the Company's common shares may fluctuate widely and there can be no assurance that the market for its common shares will provide shareholders with adequate liquidity.. The Company's common shares are listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol \"APLE.\"  The market price of the Company's common shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond the Company's control, including:.     actual versus anticipated differences in the Company's operating results, liquidity, or financial condition;.     changes in actual and/or estimated financial performance;.     publication of research reports about the Company, its hotels or the lodging or overall real estate industry;.     failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;.     the extent of institutional investors' interest in the Company and their decision to buy or sell the Company's common shares;.     issuances of common shares or other securities by the Company;.     the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that may adversely affect the Company or its industry;.     the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income instruments;.     changes in market interest rates compared to the Company's distribution yield on its common shares;.     additions and departures of key personnel;.     announcements by franchisors, operators or other owners in the hospitality industry;.     the performance and market valuations of similar companies;.     strategic actions by the Company or its competitors, such as acquisitions or dispositions;.     fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of the Company's competitors;.     speculation in the press or investment community;.     changes in accounting principles;. 17. Index.     changes in capital costs;.     terrorist acts;.     general market and economic conditions, including factors unrelated to the Company's operating performance; and.     the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's common shares.. The Company may change its distribution policy or may not have funds available to make distributions to shareholders.. The Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company's distribution policy, the impact of the economy on its operations, actual and projected financial condition and results of operations, capital expenditure requirements and other factors, including those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  While the Company intends to make monthly distributions to shareholders, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to make distributions at any particular time or rate, or at all.  Further, there is no assurance that a distribution rate achieved for a particular period will be maintained in the future.  The Company evaluates the distribution rate on an ongoing basis and may make changes at any time if the Company believes the rate is not appropriate based on REIT taxable income, limitations under financing arrangements, or other cash needs.  A reduction in the Company's distribution rate could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common shares.. While the Company generally seeks to make distributions from its operating cash flows, distributions may be made (although there is no obligation to do so) in certain circumstances, in part, from financing proceeds or other sources.  While distributions from such sources would result in the shareholder receiving cash, the consequences to the shareholders would differ from a distribution from the Company's operating cash flows.  For example, if debt financing is the source of a distribution, that financing would not be available for other opportunities and would have to be repaid.. Future offerings or the perception that future offerings could occur may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common shares and future offerings may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. The Company has in the past and may in the future issue additional common shares to raise capital necessary to finance hotel acquisitions, fund capital expenditures, pay down outstanding borrowings on its revolving credit facility, refinance debt or for other corporate purposes.  A large volume of sales of the Company's common shares could decrease the market price of the Company's common shares and could impair the Company's ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future.  Even if a substantial number of sales of common shares are not affected, the mere perception of the possibility of these sales could depress the market price of the Company's common shares and have a negative effect on the Company's ability to raise capital in the future.  In addition, anticipated downward pressure on the price of the Company's common shares due to actual or anticipated sales of common shares could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of the common shares, which may itself cause the price of the common shares to decline.  Because the Company's decision to issue equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control, the Company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings. Therefore, the Company's shareholders bear the risk of its future offerings reducing the market price of its common shares and diluting their equity interests in the Company.. Tax-Related Risks and Risks Related to the Company's Status as a REIT. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code and failure of the Company to qualify as a REIT would have adverse consequences to the Company and its shareholders.. The Company's qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize the Company's REIT qualification.  Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for the. 18. Index. Company to qualify as a REIT.  Maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT will depend on the Company's satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis.  The Company's ability to satisfy the REIT income and asset tests depends upon the Company's analysis of the characterization and fair market values of the Company's assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination and for which the Company will not obtain independent appraisals, and upon the Company's ability to successfully manage the composition of its income and assets on an ongoing basis.  In addition, the Company's ability to satisfy the requirements to maintain its qualification as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which the Company has no control or only limited influence.. If the Company does not qualify as a REIT or if the Company fails to remain qualified as a REIT, the Company will be subject to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local taxes, which would reduce the Company's earnings and the amount of cash available for distribution to its shareholders.. If the Company failed to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and any available relief provisions did not apply, the Company would be subject to U.S. federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax for taxable years beginning before December 31, 2017, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to its shareholders would not be deductible by it in computing its taxable income.  Unless the Company was entitled to statutory relief under certain Code provisions, the Company also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify as a REIT.. Any determination that the Company does not qualify as a REIT would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and could materially reduce the market price of its common shares.  The Company's additional tax liability could be substantial and would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to shareholders.  Furthermore, the Company would no longer be required to make any distributions to shareholders as a condition to REIT qualification and all of its distributions to shareholders would be taxable as ordinary C corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits.  The Company's failure to qualify as a REIT also could cause an event of default under loan documents governing its debt.. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow.. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes, including payroll taxes, taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, a 100% excise tax on any transactions with a TRS that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes.  Moreover, if the Company has net income from the sale of properties that are \"dealer\" properties (a \"prohibited transaction\" under the Code), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.  The Company could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain its qualification as a REIT.  In addition, the Company's TRSs will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate income taxes on their net taxable income, if any.  Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for the payment of the Company's debt obligations and distributions to shareholders.. The Company may incur adverse tax consequences if Apple REIT Seven, Inc. (\"Apple Seven\"), Apple REIT Eight, Inc. (\"Apple Eight\") or Apple Ten (collectively, the \"merged companies\") failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or if the Apple Seven and Apple Eight mergers, and the Apple Ten merger, (collectively, the \"mergers\") failed to qualify as a tax free reorganization under the Code.. On March 1, 2014, Apple Seven and Apple Eight merged into acquisition subsidiaries of the Company and ceased their separate corporate existences, and, on September 1, 2016, Apple Ten merged into an acquisition subsidiary of the Company and ceased its separate corporate existence.  If any of the merged companies failed to qualify as a REIT for any of their taxable years ending on or before the date of their respective mergers, each of the merged companies, as the case may be, would be liable for (and the Company would be obligated to pay) U.S. federal income tax on its taxable income for such years at regular corporate rates and, assuming the mergers qualified as reorganizations within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code,.     the Company would be subject to tax on the built-in gain on each asset of the merged companies, as the case may be, existing at the time of each respective merger if the Company was to dispose of. 19. Index. the merged companies assets for up to 5 years following each respective merger. Such tax would be imposed at the highest regular corporate rate in effect at the date of the sale,.     the Company would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by the merged companies for taxable periods that it did not qualify as a REIT, and the Company would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\")) to eliminate such earnings and profits (if the Company does not timely distribute those earnings and profits, the Company could fail to qualify as a REIT), and.     if any merged company incurred any unpaid tax liabilities prior to the merger, those tax liabilities would be transferred to the Company as a result of the merger.. If there is an adjustment to any of the merged companies' taxable income or dividends paid deductions, the Company could elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure in order to maintain that merged company's REIT status.  That deficiency dividend procedure could require the Company to make significant distributions to its shareholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS.. Moreover, and irrespective of whether each of the merged companies qualified as a REIT, if any were to incur tax liabilities as a result of the failure of the mergers to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, those tax liabilities would be transferred to the Company as a result of the mergers.  Any of the merged companies' failure (before or at the date of the respective mergers) to qualify as a REIT and/or a failure of the mergers to qualify as reorganizations within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code could impair the Company's ability after the mergers to expand its business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of the Company's common shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect the Company's ability to execute its business plan or cause it to increase debt levels or issue additional equity during unfavorable market conditions.. The Company generally must distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for U.S. federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that it distributes.  To the extent that the Company satisfies this distribution requirement but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, the Company will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income.  In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that the Company pays out to its shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws.  If there is an adjustment to any of the Company's taxable income or dividends paid deductions, the Company could elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure in order to maintain the Company's REIT status.  That deficiency dividend procedure could require the Company to make significant distributions to its shareholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS.. From time to time, the Company may generate taxable income greater than its income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\").  In addition, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur.  As a result, the Company may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances.  In particular, where the Company experiences differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of its taxable income could cause it to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions; (2) incur debt or issue additional equity on unfavorable terms; (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions or capital expenditures or used for the repayment of debt; or (4) make a taxable distribution of its common shares as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive the Company's common shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements.  These alternatives could increase the Company's costs or dilute its equity.  In addition, because the REIT distribution requirement prevents the Company from retaining earnings, the Company generally will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company's ability to grow, which could adversely affect the market price of its common shares.. In the event that distributions made by Apple Seven, Apple Eight, Apple Ten or the Company (the \"Apple Companies\") are deemed \"preferential dividends,\" the Company could be subject to U.S. federal income tax liabilities and could be required to pay a \"deficiency dividend\" to its shareholders.. 20. Index. For taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2014, in order for distributions to be counted toward satisfying the annual distribution requirement for REITs, and to provide the Company with a REIT-level tax deduction, the distributions must not be \"preferential dividends.\"  A dividend is not a preferential dividend if the distribution is (1) pro rata among all outstanding shares within a particular class, and (2) in accordance with the preferences among different classes of shares as set forth in the Company's organizational documents.  For each taxable year commencing with the taxable year that began on January 1, 2015, so long as the Company continues to be a \"publicly offered REIT\" (i.e., a REIT which is required to file annual and periodic reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act), the preferential dividend rule will not apply to the Company.. Each of Apple Seven, Apple Eight, and the Company (the \"Apple REITs\") issued units (which, at the time, consisted of one common share together with one Series A preferred share of the applicable Apple REIT) under their dividend reinvestment plans (\"DRIPs\") until June 2013.  Participation in the DRIPs was at the discretion of each shareholder.  Pursuant to the DRIPs, each of the Apple REITs sold its units at a price per unit that was based on the most recent price at which an unrelated person had purchased units from that Apple REIT.  This method of issuing units could present the issue of whether the distributions were \"preferential distributions\" and thus would not have counted toward satisfying the annual distribution requirement which could have resulted in the loss of its REIT status.  The Company believes each Apple REIT's DRIP has not violated the prohibition on the payment of preferential dividends; however, there can be no assurance or guarantee that the IRS will concur.. If any Apple Company violated the prohibition on the payment of preferential dividends and that violation caused it to fail to meet the annual distribution requirement with respect to any year, such failure would preclude that Apple Company from qualifying as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and disqualify that Apple Company from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which its qualification was lost.  That result could subject the Company to federal income tax liabilities.  The requirement to pay any federal income tax liabilities could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to make the required distributions to meet the 90% distribution requirement.  If it were determined that certain distributions by the Apple Companies to shareholders failed to qualify for the dividends paid deduction for one or more taxable years with the result that any of the Apple Companies would not have satisfied its distribution requirement with respect to any such taxable year, the Company would expect to pay a \"deficiency dividend\" to its shareholders in the amount necessary to permit each Apple Company to satisfy the distribution requirements of Section 857 of the Code for each such taxable year.  The amount of the deficiency dividend (plus the interest payable to the IRS) that would need to be paid for all of the Apple Companies in that circumstance could be significant.. The Company may in the future choose to pay dividends in the form of common shares, in which case shareholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive.. The Company may seek in the future to distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common shares, at the election of each shareholder.  Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received.  If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of common shares at the time of the sale.  In addition, in such case, a U.S. shareholder could have a capital loss with respect to the common shares sold that could not be used to offset such dividend income.  Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, the Company may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares.  In addition, such a taxable share dividend could be viewed as equivalent to a reduction in the Company's cash distributions, and that factor, as well as the possibility that a significant number of the Company's shareholders could determine to sell the common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, may put downward pressure on the market price of the Company's common shares.. If the Company's leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company would likely fail to qualify as a REIT.. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of the Company's gross income must be passive income, such as rent.  For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with the Company's TRSs, which the Company currently expects will continue to constitute substantially. 21. Index. all of the REIT's gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement.  The Company believes that the leases have been and will continue to be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes.  There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will agree with this characterization.  If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, the Company may not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and may lose its REIT status.  Additionally, the Company could be subject to a 100% excise tax for any adjustment to its leases.. If any of the hotel management companies that the Company's TRSs engage do not qualify as \"eligible independent contractors,\" or if the Company's hotels are not \"qualified lodging facilities,\" the Company would likely fail to qualify as a REIT.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a \"related party tenant\" of the Company generally will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs.  An exception is provided, however, for leases of \"qualified lodging facilities\" to a TRS so long as the hotels are managed by an \"eligible independent contractor\" and certain other requirements are satisfied.  The Company intends to continue to take advantage of this exception.  The Company leases and expects to continue to lease all or substantially all of its hotels to TRS lessees and to engage hotel management companies that are intended to qualify as \"eligible independent contractors.\"  Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, the hotel management company must not own, directly or through its shareholders, more than 35% of the Company's outstanding shares, and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of the Company's outstanding shares and the shares (or ownership interest) of the hotel management company (taking into account certain ownership attribution rules).  The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds are complex, and monitoring actual and constructive ownership of the Company's shares by the hotel management companies and their owners may not be practical.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.. In addition, for a hotel management company to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, such company or a related person must be actively engaged in the trade or business of operating \"qualified lodging facilities\" (as defined below) for one or more persons not related to the REIT or its TRSs at each time that such company enters into a hotel management contract with a TRS.  As of the date hereof, the Company believes the hotel management companies operate qualified lodging facilities for certain persons who are not related to the Company or its TRSs.  However, no assurances can be provided that this will continue to be the case or that any other hotel management companies that the Company may engage in the future will in fact comply with this requirement in the future.  Finally, each hotel with respect to which the Company's TRS lessees pay rent must be a \"qualified lodging facility.\"  A \"qualified lodging facility\" is a hotel, motel, or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis, including customary amenities and facilities, provided that no wagering activities are conducted at or in connection with such facility by any person who is engaged in the business of accepting wagers and who is legally authorized to engage in such business at or in connection with such facility.  Although the Company intends to monitor future acquisitions and improvements of hotels, the REIT provisions of the Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified lodging facilities, and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied in all cases.. The Company's ownership of TRSs is limited, and the Company's transactions with its TRSs will cause it to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's-length terms.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs.  A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT.  Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS.  A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS.  Overall, no more than 25% (20% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs.  In addition, the rules applicable to TRSs limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation.  The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions, including the leases, between the TRS and the REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. 22. Index. The Company's TRSs will pay U.S. federal, state and local income taxes on their net taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to the REIT but is not required to be distributed.  The Company believes that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of its TRSs has been and will continue to be less than 25% (20% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of its total assets (including the stock and securities of its TRSs).  Furthermore, the Company has monitored and will continue to monitor the value of its respective investments in its TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the ownership limitations applicable to TRSs.  In addition, the Company will continue to scrutinize all of its transactions with its TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax.  There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to comply with the rules regarding TRSs or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax.  The most significant transactions between the Company and its TRSs are the hotel leases from the Company to its TRSs.  While the Company believes its leases have customary terms and reflect normal business practices and that the rents paid thereto reflect market terms, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree.. Complying with REIT requirements may force the Company to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amount it distributes to its shareholders and the ownership of its common shares.  In order to meet these tests, the Company may be required to liquidate from its portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT.  These actions could have the effect of reducing the Company's income and amounts available for distribution to its shareholders.  In addition, the Company may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when the Company does not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments that would otherwise be advantageous to it in order to satisfy the source of income or asset diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT.  Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company's ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of, certain attractive investments.. The Company's inability to deduct for tax purposes compensation paid to its executives could require it to increase its distributions to shareholders in order to maintain its REIT status or to avoid entity-level taxes.. Section 162(m) of the Code prohibits publicly held corporations from taking a tax deduction for annual compensation in excess of $1 million paid to any of the corporation's \"covered employees.\"  Prior to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), a publicly held corporation's covered employees included its chief executive officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers (other than the chief financial officer), and certain \"performance-based compensation\" was excluded from the $1 million cap.  The Act made certain changes to Section 162(m), effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.  These changes include, among others, expanding the definition of \"covered employees\" to include the chief financial officer and repealing the performance-based compensation exception to the $1 million cap, subject to a transition rule for remuneration provided pursuant to a written binding contract which was in effect on November 2, 2017, and which was not modified in any material respect on or after that date.. Since the Company qualifies as a REIT under the Code and is generally not subject to U.S. federal income taxes other than through its TRSs, if compensation did not qualify for deduction under Section 162(m), the payment of compensation that fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) would not have a material adverse consequence to the Company, provided the Company continues to distribute 100% of its taxable income.  Based on the Company's current taxable income and distributions, the Company does not believe that it will be required to increase its rate of distributions in order to maintain its status as a REIT (or to avoid paying corporate or excise taxes at the entity level) if the Company's payment of compensation fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m).  However, in that case, a larger portion of shareholder distributions that would otherwise have been treated as a return of capital will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as dividend income.  In the future, if the Company makes compensation payments subject to Section 162(m) limitations on deductibility, the Company may be required to make additional distributions to shareholders to comply with REIT distribution requirements and eliminate U.S. federal income tax liability at the entity level. Any such compensation allocated to the TRSs whose income is subject to U.S. federal income tax would result in an increase in income taxes due to the inability to deduct such compensation.. 23. Index. There is a risk of changes in the tax law applicable to REITs.. The IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review U.S. federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance.  The Company cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted.  Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify the Company's tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of the Company or the Company's shareholders.  In particular, the Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 and which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, makes many significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws that will impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both regular C corporations as well as, to a lesser extent, corporations that have elected to be taxed as REITs).  These changes will impact the Company and the Company's shareholders in various ways, although, based on the Company's initial assessment, the impact of these changes are not expected to be material.  To date, the IRS has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance.  It is highly likely that technical correction legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to Congressional intent.  There can be no assurance, however, that technical clarifications or changes needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by Congress in the near future."
