[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this report before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those we currently view as immaterial, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Drilling, exploring for and producing oil and gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on commodity prices and the success of our drilling, exploration and production activities. These factors are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in economic oil and gas production or increases in reserves. Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled development projects, including:. •  declines in oil, NGLs and gas prices;. •  inadequate capital resources or liquidity to maintain current production levels or further develop our assets;. •  compliance with governmental regulations, which may include limitations on hydraulic fracturing, access to water or the discharge of GHGs;. •  limited transportation services and infrastructure to deliver the oil, NGLs and natural gas we produce to market;. •  inability to attract and retain qualified personnel;. •  unavailability or high cost of drilling and completion equipment, services or materials;. •  unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents;. •  lack of acceptable prospective acreage;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  surface access restrictions;. •  title problems;. •  mechanical difficulties;. •  natural disasters; and. •  civil unrest or protest activities.. Oil, NGLs and gas prices are volatile and have declined significantly in recent years. Sustained declines in oil, NGLs or gas prices from current levels would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure requirements and financial commitments.. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend on the prices and demand for oil, NGLs and gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil, NGLs and gas fluctuate widely in response to changes in the supply and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as:. •  domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs and gas;. •  domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil, NGLs and gas;. •  overall United States and global economic conditions impacting the global supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and gas;. •  actions of OPEC, its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. •  commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, the availability of refining capacity and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices;. •  price and availability of alternative fuels;. •  price and quantity of foreign imports;. 14. •  domestic and foreign governmental regulations;. •  political conditions in or affecting other oil and natural gas producing countries;. •  weather conditions, including unseasonably warm winter weather and tropical storms; and. •  technological advances affecting oil, NGLs and gas consumption.. Advanced drilling and completion technologies, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, have resulted in increased investment by oil and gas producers in developing U.S. shale oil and gas projects and, therefore, has resulted in increased production from these projects. The results of higher investment in the exploration for and production of U.S. shale oil and gas, maintenance of production levels of oil from the Middle East, and other factors, such as global economic and financial conditions, have caused the price of oil and gas to be volatile. For example, prices for NYMEX-WTI ranged from a high of $60.42 per Bbl to a low of $42.53 per Bbl in 2017. NYMEX-Henry Hub natural gas prices ranged from a high of $3.72 per MMBtu to a low of $2.56 per MMBtu in 2017. While prices have increased from recent lows, they are still significantly below previous highs. Declines in oil and natural gas prices from current levels may further reduce our level of exploration, drilling and production activity and cash flows.. The Company's financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the amount of oil and gas that may be economically produced would be negatively impacted if oil and gas prices decline from current levels for an extended period of time.. The ways that a decline in oil and gas prices from current levels could affect us include the following:. •  Cash flows would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures needed to maintain or increase production and replace reserves;. •  We may breach covenants in our revolving credit facility;. •  Future net cash flows from our properties would decrease, which could result in significant impairment expenses;. •  Some reserves would no longer be economic to produce, leading to lower proved reserves, production and cash flows;. •  Access to capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets and current reserve-based lending levels, would be severely limited or unavailable; and. •  The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility could be reduced as further discussed below, and if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility exceeds the borrowing base, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings.. If commodity prices decline from current levels, our future cash flows will not be sufficient to fund the capital expenditure levels necessary to maintain current production and reserve levels over the long term and our results of operations will be adversely affected.. Low oil and gas prices not only cause our revenues and cash flows to decrease but also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. Decreases in oil and gas prices will render uneconomic some or all of our drilling locations. This may result in our having to impair our oil and gas properties further and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if oil, NGLs or gas prices further decline or fail to recover from their current levels for an extended period of time, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future debt or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock. The amount available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The decline in oil and gas prices has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base.. 15. If we cannot significantly reduce our leverage, or we cannot increase our liquidity, we may seek alternative refinancing transactions.. We have been actively engaged in the process of analyzing various options to address our liquidity as well as assessing our overall capital structure. In 2017, we successfully closed the Exchange Transactions, which reduced the outstanding principal of our debt by $145.1 million. If we cannot continue to reduce our leverage with cash flow or through acquisitions, and if we cannot increase our liquidity, we may determine to evaluate additional transactions designed to reduce leverage and increase liquidity and operating cash flow. These transactions may not be advantageous to the existing holders of our common stock. Some of these alternatives may include additional debt buybacks, debt-for-debt or debt-for-equity exchanges or refinancings, strategic investments and joint ventures, sales of assets or working interests, private or public equity raises or rights offerings or transactions which may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders.. Wilks and its affiliates own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, and is entitled to appoint three of our directors, and thus it could exert certain significant influence over us, and their acquisition of additional common stock may cause a change in control.. As of January 12, 2018, Wilks Brothers, LLC and SDW Investments, LLC (collectively, \"Wilks\") beneficially owned 45,239,713 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, pursuant to our stockholders agreement with Wilks, Wilks is entitled to appoint three of the seven members of our board of directors. As a result, Wilks could exert certain significant influence over us. Wilks may have interests that do not align with our interests and with the interests of our stockholders, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, Wilks' level of control may make any potential takeover bids more costly or difficult in the future. Further, although Wilks is currently subject to a stockholders agreement that, among other things, caps their share ownership at 48.61% of our outstanding common stock, Wilks' acquisition of more than 50% of our outstanding common stock would trigger change in control provisions in Company agreements, potentially causing severance payments to become due or the vesting of shares of common stock awards to be accelerated, and could cause a default under our revolving credit facility if the consent of certain lenders is not obtained, which could adversely affect the Company.. Our business requires significant capital expenditures, and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all.. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. For example, according to our year-end 2017 reserve report, the estimated future capital required to develop our current proved oil and gas reserves is $962.8 million. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public equity and debt financings. In 2017, we funded our capital expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the production from existing wells, prices of oil, NGLs and gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If commodity prices decline from current levels, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to cover our current or future capital expenditure budgets, and we may have limited ability to obtain the additional capital necessary to fully develop our proved reserves. In addition we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could cause us to scale back our exploration and development operations, which in turn would lead to a decline in our oil and gas production and reserves, and in some areas a loss of properties.. 16. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations.. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and other commitments, including our obligations under our $85.2 million principal amount of Senior Notes and $291 million in outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as oil and gas prices, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy and initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as:. •  selling assets;. •  reducing or delaying capital investments;. •  seeking to raise additional capital, potentially in a manner dilutive to our existing stockholders; or. •  refinancing or restructuring our remaining debt.. If, for any reason, we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable, which could in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements. In addition, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our borrowings, or they could prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. If amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility or the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders.. Our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations.. At December 31, 2017, we had $291 million in borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, and our borrowing base was $325 million. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition to such semi-annual redeterminations, our lenders may request one additional redetermination during any 12-month period. Upon such redetermination, our borrowing base could be reduced, and if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. If commodity prices decrease significantly, it is likely that our borrowing base will be reduced after redetermination. We use cash flow from operations and bank borrowings to fund our exploration, development and acquisition activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could limit those activities. In addition, we may significantly change our capital structure to cover our working capital needs, make future acquisitions or develop our properties. Changes in capital structure may significantly increase our debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance, which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our revolving credit facility borrowing base is subject to semi-annual redetermination, and current Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\") guidelines may incentivize lenders to limit our borrowing capabilities.. In 2016, the OCC issued revised guidelines for exploration and production companies that specify target leverage metrics that we currently exceed.  The lower a loan's credit rating, the more reserves a bank must set aside. This makes it more expensive for the bank to keep a negatively-rated, or classified, loan on its books.  We continue to operate with leverage in excess of OCC guidelines, which increases our risk of a negative semi-annual borrowing base redetermination, which could in turn materially decrease our liquidity or cause our borrowings to exceed our borrowing base and cause us to be in default under our credit agreement.. 17. Our revolving credit facility contains operating and financial restrictions and covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities or that economic conditions and commodity prices may cause us to breach.. Our revolving credit facility contains, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. •  sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries;. •  consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. •  incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock;. •  redeem or prepay other debt;. •  pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;. •  create or incur certain liens;. •  make certain acquisitions and investments;. •  enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. •  engage in transactions with affiliates;. •  create unrestricted subsidiaries;. •  enter into financing transactions; and. •  engage in certain business activities.. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. Our revolving credit facility also contains financial covenants. Our ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control. If commodity prices decline from current levels, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our revolving credit facility, or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility occurs and remains uncured, the lenders:. •  would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. •  could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable;. •  may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or. •  may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements.. Failure to comply with any of the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility could cause an event of default and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Following the fourth amendment to our revolving credit facility, executed in December 2017, our credit facility includes three principal financial covenants: (i) an interest coverage ratio, (ii) a modified current ratio and (iii) a leverage ratio covenant that will first be measured in the first quarter of 2019. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause an event of default under our revolving credit facility and have a material adverse effect on our business.. 18. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this report for a more detailed description of these financial covenants. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with our interest coverage ratio covenant and our modified current ratio covenant. In order to satisfy the new leverage ratio covenant, we must improve our leverage ratio by the end of the first quarter of 2019. Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant by the first quarter of 2019. Failure to comply with the financial covenants may result in an event of default.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows from operations and financial condition.. Since all of the indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility is at variable interest rates, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As a result, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates.. If commodity prices decline to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to write down the carrying values of our properties. Additionally, current SEC rules also could require us to write down our proved undeveloped reserves in the future.. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down is a non-cash charge to earnings. We recorded no impairment of our proved properties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded an impairment loss of $220.2 million. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile.. In addition, current SEC rules require that proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time. This rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our development projects. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required timeframe or if commodity prices cause us to change our development plan to decrease the number of wells to be drilled over the five-year period. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we reclassified 17.7 MMBoe of proved reserves to unproved reserves attributable to horizontal well locations in Project Pangea that are no longer expected to be developed within five years from their initial booking, as required by SEC rules.. The estimated volumes, standardized measure and present value of future net revenues (\"PV-10\") from our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties.. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. On December 31, 2017, our standardized measure of discounted cash flows was $461 million. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. The non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10, is based on the average of the closing price on the first day of the month for the 12-month period prior to fiscal year end, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower.. Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, and related standardized measure and PV-10, were calculated under the SEC rules using 12-month trailing average benchmark prices of $51.34 per Bbl of oil, $18.67 per Bbl of NGLs and $2.99 per MMBtu of gas. If oil, NGLs and gas prices decline by 10% from $51.34 per Bbl of oil, $18.67 per Bbl of NGLs and $2.99 per MMBtu of gas, to $46.21 per Bbl of oil, $16.80 per Bbl of NGLs and $2.69 per MMBtu of gas, then our PV-10 as of December 31, 2017, would decrease from $521 million to approximately $391 million. Actual future net revenues also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, prevailing operating and development costs, supply and demand for oil and gas,. 19. increases or decreases in consumption and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. For a reconciliation of PV-10, a measure not calculated in accordance with GAAP, to our standardized measure of discounted future cash flows and related disclosures, see \"Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure.\". Consequently, these measures may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may they reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. Therefore, the standardized measure of our estimated reserves and PV-10 included in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating PV-10 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.. The issuance of shares in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may issue common stock or other securities to raise cash for further debt and leverage reduction, working capital, acquisitions or hiring and retaining employees. We also may acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We also may issue securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales or issuances of a substantial amount of our common stock, or the perception that these sales or issuances may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities.. Our stock price has been and could remain volatile, which further could adversely affect the market price of our stock and our ability to raise additional capital and cause us to be subject to securities class action litigation.. The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. In 2017, the price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $3.70 per share to a low of $1.93 per share. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies in the energy sector, and particularly in the upstream sector. Such market price volatility could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation as a result of the decline in the price of our common stock, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources and could harm our stock price, business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We may experience differentials to benchmark prices in the future, which may be material.. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers at prices that reflect a discount to other relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX-WTI or NYMEX-Henry Hub. The price we receive for the majority of our natural gas is based on the price received by our third party midstream purchaser. Our third party midstream purchaser sells most of our natural gas at the WAHA hub in West Texas. The difference between a benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a basis differential. Basis differentials result from variances in regional prices compared to benchmark prices as a result of regional supply and demand factors. For example, the WAHA index price in December 2017 was $0.47 per MMBtu lower than the NYMEX-Henry Hub price. We may experience differentials to benchmark prices in the future, which may be material.. We engage in commodity derivative transactions which involve risks that can harm our business.. To manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our production, we enter into commodity derivative agreements. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is lower than expected. We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the commodity derivative agreements.. 20. Due to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\"), the derivative transactions we execute are undertaken in a highly regulated market. While many of the rules implementing the Dodd-Frank statute are in place at this time, some significant components of the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime remain subject to rulemaking by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other regulators.. Although we have hedged a portion of our estimated 2018 production, our hedging program may be inadequate to protect us against continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil and natural gas.. Currently we have commodity price derivative agreements for 2018 production on approximately (i) 627,500 Bbls of oil with swaps and collars at a weighted average floor price of $56.37 per Bbl and a weighted average ceiling price of $57.81 per Bbl, (ii) 5,400,000 MMBtu of natural gas hedged with swaps at a weighted average price of $3.08 per MMBtu and (iii) 749,400 BBls of NGLs at weighted average prices of $11.42 per Bbl (C2-ethane), $32.53 per Bbl (C3-propane), $37.81 per Bbl (IC4-isobutane), $37.80 per Bbl (NC4-butane) and $56.36 per Bbl (C5-Pentane). These derivative contracts will not protect us from a continuing and prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas for the unhedged portion of our production in 2018 or our production after 2018. To the extent that the prices for oil and gas decline, we will not be able to hedge future production at the same level as our current hedges, and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. We are subject to complex governmental laws and regulations that may adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business.. Our oil and gas drilling, production and gathering operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and approvals from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations apply to our operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations, including any evolving interpretation and enforcement by government authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Business  -  Regulation\" for a further description of the laws and regulations that affect us.. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives and private litigation relating to hydraulic fracturing could stop or delay our development project and result in materially increased costs and additional operating restrictions.. All of our proved undeveloped reserves associated with future drilling and completion projects will require hydraulic fracturing. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Hydraulic Fracturing\" for a discussion of the importance of hydraulic fracturing to our business, and Item 1. \"Business  -  Regulation  - Hydraulic Fracturing\" for a discussion of regulatory developments regarding hydraulic fracturing. If these or any other new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill and produce from our proved reserves, as well as make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also permitting delays and increases in costs. The EPA and other federal agencies, including the United States Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\"), have in recent years made proposals that would subject hydraulic fracturing to further regulation and could restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA has issued final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act establishing performance standards for oil and gas activities, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing, and, in 2016, the EPA finalized regulations that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. Several of the EPA's and the BLM's recently promulgated rules concerning regulation of hydraulic fracturing are in various stages of suspension, implementation delay and court challenges, therefore, the future of these rules is uncertain.   The EPA also released a study in December 2016 finding that certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing, such as water withdrawals and wastewater management practices, could result in impacts to water resources, although the report did not identify a direct link between hydraulic fracturing. 21. and impacts to groundwater resources. However, several states have adopted, and more states are considering adopting, laws and/or regulations that require disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, some states and municipalities have significantly limited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing so. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these proposals or court challenges to existing rules or proposed rules, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of our failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to use hydraulic fracturing in completing our wells or hydraulic fracturing becomes prohibited or significantly regulated or restricted, we could lose the ability to drill and complete the projects for our proved reserves and maintain our current leasehold acreage, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, materials, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our drilling and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget.. Our industry is cyclical, and, from time-to-time, during periods of improving and high commodity prices, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, equipment, supplies or qualified service personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of equipment, oilfield services and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling and completion crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production will increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the availability of equipment, crews, materials and services in the Permian Basin is particularly severe, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in the Permian Basin.. Our operations substantially depend on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain, dispose of or recycle water may impact our ability to execute our drilling and development plans in a timely or cost-effective manner.. Water is an essential component of our drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to secure water from local landowners and other sources for use in our operations. From 2011 through 2014, West Texas experienced extreme drought conditions. As a result of the severe drought, governmental authorities restricted the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing to protect the local water supply. Although such restrictions have been lifted, if West Texas experiences further drought conditions, the restrictions may return. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil, NGLs and gas, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. For example, in 2014, the RRC published a final rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. In 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified several states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction.  Furthermore, ongoing lawsuits allege that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by the Company or by commercial disposal well vendors whom the Company may use from time to time to dispose of produced water. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements for the disposal, withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or ground water necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or cessation of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 22. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing interest in alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Climate change legislation or regulations regulating emissions of GHGs and VOCs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas we produce.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment, the EPA adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal CAA. The EPA also issued final regulations under the NSPS and NESHAP designed to reduce VOCs, including methane. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Regulation  -  Environmental Laws and Regulations  -  Greenhouse Gas Emissions\" and \"  -  Air Emissions\" for a discussion of regulatory developments regarding GHG and VOC emissions.. While Congress has from time-to-time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, no significant legislation has been adopted to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of GHG cap-and-trade programs. Most of these cap-and-trade programs require either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances are expected to escalate significantly in cost over time.. In 2016, the EPA issued a final Information Collection Request seeking information about methane emissions from facilities and operators in the oil and gas industry. The EPA indicated that it intended to use the information from this request to develop Existing Source Performance Standards for the oil and gas industry or to develop standards for certain kinds of new and modified equipment and facilities not currently covered under the NSPS.   Although the EPA rescinded the Information Collection Request in March 2017, the EPA could take additional actions to collect such information from individual operators or from the industry as a whole and rely upon such information as the basis for GHG emission regulation of the oil and gas industry.. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG or VOC emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG or VOC emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our oil and gas operations due to the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and generated wastes, the occurrence of air emissions and water discharges from work-related activities and the legacy of pollution from historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. We may incur joint and several or strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with spills, leaks or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, some of which have been used for exploration, production or development activities for many years and by third parties not under our control. In particular, the number of private, civil lawsuits involving hydraulic fracturing has risen in recent years. Since 2009, multiple private lawsuits alleging ground water contamination have been filed in the U.S. against oil and gas companies, primarily by landowners who leased oil and gas rights to defendants, or by landowners who live close to areas where hydraulic fracturing has taken place. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. 23. Our ability to use our federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to use its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. As a result of the Exchange Transactions, we underwent an ownership change under Section 382 as of March 22, 2017, which resulted in an annual limitation on our ability to use our pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income recognized after such date. Accordingly, we reduced our NOL deferred tax assets by $139.1 million.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") that significantly reforms the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates and allows for the expensing of capital expenditures. While past legislative proposals have included changes to certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to oil and gas companies including (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures, these specific changes are not included in the TCJA. No accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be. However, the TCJA (i) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (ii) imposes new limitations on the use of NOLs, (iii) limits the deductibility of performance based compensation to executive officers and (iv) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies. This legislation or any future changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that currently are available with respect to oil and gas development, or increase costs, and any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. We do not expect tax reform to have a material impact to our projection of cash taxes or to our NOLs. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact was recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse.. Our future reserve and production growth depends on the success of our horizontal Wolfcamp oil shale resource play, which has a limited operational history and is subject to change.. We began drilling horizontal wells in the Wolfcamp play in late 2010. The wells that have been drilled or recompleted in these areas represent a small sample of our large acreage position, and we cannot assure you that our new wells will be successful. We continue to gather data about our prospects in the Wolfcamp play, and it is possible that additional information may cause us to change our drilling schedule or determine that prospects in some portion of our acreage position should not be developed at all.. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve using some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to:. •  landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. 24. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Failure to effectively execute and manage our single major development project, Project Pangea, could result in significant delays, cost overruns, limitation of our growth, damage to our reputation and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe we have an extensive inventory of identified drilling locations in our development project (Project Pangea) in the Wolfcamp shale oil resource play; however, Project Pangea is our core asset and our only development project. As we achieve more results in Project Pangea, we have expanded our horizontal development project there. This level of development activity requires significant effort from our management and technical personnel and places additional requirements on our financial resources and internal operating and financial controls. Our ability to successfully develop and manage this project will depend on, among other things:. •  our ability to finance development of the project;. •  the extent of our success in drilling and completing horizontal Wolfcamp wells;. •  our ability to control costs and manage drilling and completion risks;. •  our ability to attract, retain and train qualified personnel with the skills required to develop the project in a timely and cost-effective manner; and. •  our ability to implement and maintain effective operating and financial controls and reporting systems necessary to develop and operate the project.. We may not be able to compensate for, or fully mitigate, these risks.. Currently, substantially all of our producing properties are located in two counties in Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one primary area.. Substantially all of our producing properties and estimated proved reserves are concentrated in Crockett and Schleicher Counties, Texas. As a result of this concentration, we are disproportionately exposed to the natural decline of production from these fields as well as the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailments of production, service delays, natural disasters or other events that impact this area.. Because of our geographic concentration, our purchaser base is limited, and the loss of one of our key purchasers or their inability to take our oil, NGLs or gas could adversely affect our financial results.. In 2017, AMID and DCP collectively accounted for 99% of our total oil, NGLs and gas sales, excluding realized commodity derivative settlements. As of December 31, 2017, we had dedicated the majority of our oil production from northern Project Pangea and Pangea West through September 2022 to AMID. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had dedicated the majority of our NGLs and natural gas production from Project Pangea to DCP through August 2023. To the extent that any of our major purchasers reduces their purchases of oil, NGLs or gas, is unable to take our oil, NGLs or gas due to infrastructure or capacity limitations or defaults on their obligations to us, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably favorable arrangements. 25. with other purchasers. These purchasers' default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. A default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to one or more of these customers or due to circumstances related to other market participants with which the customer has a direct or indirect relationship.. We depend on our management team and other key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, or the inability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth.. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and other key personnel and the ability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In 2011, we entered into an amended and restated employment agreement with J. Ross Craft, P.E., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In 2014, we entered into an employment agreement with Sergei Krylov as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In January 2017, we amended our employment agreements with Qingming Yang, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and J. Curtis Henderson, our Chief Administrative Officer. If any of these officers or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to effectively train, motivate and manage our existing employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably.. Market conditions or transportation and infrastructure impediments may hinder our access to oil, NGLs and gas markets or delay our production or sales.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil, NGLs and gas processing and transportation services and infrastructure may hinder our access to oil, NGLs and gas markets or delay our production or sales. Although currently we control the gathering systems for our operations in the Permian Basin, we do not have such control over the regional or downstream pipelines in and out of the Permian Basin. The availability of a ready market for our oil, NGLs and gas production depends on a number of factors, including market demand and the proximity of our reserves to pipelines or trucking and rail terminal facilities.. In addition, the amount of oil, NGLs and gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to maintenance, excessive line pressure, excessive vapor pressure, ability of downstream processing facilities to accept unprocessed gas or NGLs, physical damage or operational interruptions to the gathering or transportation system or downstream processing and fractionation facilities or lack of contracted capacity on such systems or facilities.. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, we are provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. As a result, we may not be able to sell, or may have to transport by more expensive means, the oil, NGLs and gas that we produce, or we may be required to shut in oil or gas wells or delay initial production until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are available. Any significant curtailment in gathering systems, transportation, pipeline capacity or significant delay in construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We heavily depend on our information systems and computer-based programs, including drilling, completion and production data, seismic data, electronic data processing and accounting data. If any of these programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, possible consequences include our loss of communication links, inability to find, produce, process and sell oil, NGLs and gas and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. In addition, the U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure could disrupt our business plans and result in information theft, unauthorized access to confidential or otherwise sensitive information, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the Company's implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the Company's information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Costs for insurance may also increase as a result of security threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring.. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours.. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and gas and securing equipment and skilled personnel. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies that have financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to develop and operate our current project, acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of low commodity prices and unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing oil, NGLs and gas and raising additional capital.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could prevent them from being drilled or delay their drilling. In certain instances, this could prevent drilling and production before the expiration date of leases for such locations.. Our management team has identified drilling locations as an estimation of our future development activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these identified drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil, NGLs and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system, marketing and transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the identified drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or gas from these or any other identified drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the identified locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. 27. The use of geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves.. Our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting Wolfcamp and other zones in the Permian Basin and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. Even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses, 3-D seismic and micro-seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. They do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. In addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion technologies for our Wolfcamp development, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than our traditional development drilling strategies. Our ability to commercially recover and produce the hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to the Wolfcamp and other zones will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our development project (which will be directly affected by the availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. Our estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data.. Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline.. Our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our production, revenues and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced, unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves.. We have leases for undeveloped acreage that may expire in the near future.. As of December 31, 2017, we held mineral leases in each of our areas of operation that are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. Leases not held by production represent 42% of our net acreage, and 2% of our proved undeveloped reserves. Unless we continue to develop and produce on the properties subject to these leases, these leases may expire in 2018. If these leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties, unless we renew such leases. In addition, many of our leases may be terminated if we fail to meet our continuous development obligations thereunder. The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See Item 2. \"Properties  -  Undeveloped Acreage Expirations\" for a table summarizing the expiration schedule of our undeveloped acreage expiring based on contractual lease maturities over the next three years.. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of our proved reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated and drilling costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. These differences may be material.. The proved oil, NGLs and gas reserves data included in this report are estimates. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:. •  historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas;. •  the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. 28. •  assumptions concerning future oil, NGLs and gas prices; and. •  assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.. Because all reserves estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:. •  the quantities of oil, NGLs and gas that are ultimately recovered;. •  the production and operating costs incurred;. •  the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and. •  future oil, NGLs and gas prices.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 63% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are even less reliable than estimates of proved developed reserves. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and future net revenues based on the same available data. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future, we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Severe weather could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. For example, our production volumes for the three months ended September 30, 2017, were adversely impacted by Hurricane Harvey, as the main purchaser of our NGLs and natural gas had to temporarily shut in or curtail receipt of NGLs and natural gas at multiple processing plants in the Permian Basin. Additional repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. •  curtailment of services, including oil, NGLs and gas pipelines, processing plants and trucking services;. •  weather-related damage to drilling rigs, resulting in a temporary suspension of operations;. •  weather-related damage to our producing wells or facilities;. •  inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and. •  loss of production.. 29. Operating hazards or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance.. The oil and gas business involves certain operating hazards such as well blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of gas, oil or well fluids, fires, surface and subsurface pollution and contamination, and releases of toxic gas. The occurrence of one of the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. Consistent with insurance coverage generally available to the industry, our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. The insurance market, in general, and the energy insurance market, in particular, have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years, and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our results are subject to quarterly and seasonal fluctuations.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal variations in oil, NGLs and gas prices, variations in levels of production and the completion of development projects.. We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and certain members of our board of directors and certain of our stockholders generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities.. In accordance with Delaware law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which our outside directors and certain of our stockholders, each referred to as a Designated Party, participates or desires to participate in, that involves any aspect of the exploration and production business in the oil and gas industry. If any such business opportunity is presented to a Designated Party who also serves as a member of our board of directors, the Designated Party has no obligation to communicate or offer that opportunity to us, and the Designated Party may pursue the opportunity as he sees fit, unless:. •  it was presented to the Designated Party solely in that person's capacity as a director of our Company and with respect to which, at the time of such presentment, no other Designated Party has independently received notice of, or otherwise identified the business opportunity; or. •  the opportunity was identified by the Designated Party solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us.. As a result of this renunciation, our outside directors should not be deemed to have breached any fiduciary duty to us if they or their affiliates or associates pursue opportunities as described above and our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected.. 30"
