[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this annual report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect Aptevo's results of operations, financial condition or financial prospects. The risk factors generally have been separated into nine groups: operating risks, commercialization risks, regulatory and compliance risks, product development risks, intellectual property risks, risks related to collaborations, financial risks, risks related to the separation, and risks related to our common stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Financial Risks. We have a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future.. Our historical consolidated financial data prior to August 1, 2016 was prepared on a \"carve-out\" basis from the financial information of Emergent and shows that had we been a standalone company, we would have had a history of losses, and we may be unable to achieve profitability going forward.. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, we had net income of $7.0 million. This net income was the result of our receipt of proceeds from the sale of the Hyperimmune Business in September 2017. Except for the third quarter of 2017 and year ended December 31, 2017, we have experienced net losses in all other periods since our spinout from Emergent. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $73.7 million. If we cannot achieve profitability or generate positive cash from operating activities, our business operations may be adversely impacted and the trading value of our common stock may decline.. We will require additional capital and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on acceptable terms.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments in the amount of $91.2 million. We will require additional funding to grow our business including to develop additional products, support commercial marketing activities or otherwise provide additional financial flexibility. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •  the level, timing and cost of product sales;. •  the collection of accounts receivable from customers;. •  the extent to which we invest in products or technologies;. •  the ability to satisfy the payment obligations and covenants under such credit facility;. •  the ability to secure partnerships and/or collaborations that generate additional cash;. •  capital improvements to our facilities;. •  the payment obligations under our current or any future indebtedness;. •  the scope, progress, results and costs of our development activities;. •  the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution;. •  the ongoing costs associated with the separation from Emergent and performance under agreements with Emergent;. 19. •  the ongoing costs associated with replicating or outsourcing from other providers' certain facilities, systems, operational and administrative infrastructure, including information technology infrastructure, and personnel, to which we no longer have access after our separation from Emergent; and. •  the ability to collect the milestone payments totaling up to $7.5 million related to the achievement of certain gross profit milestones and up to $2.0 million related to collection of certain accounts receivable from Saol.. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, we will need to finance our cash needs through bank loans, public or private equity or debt offerings, a sale of commercial assets, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other strategic transactions. Future issuances of common stock may include any sale of up to $17.5 million worth of shares of our common stock pursuant to our Equity Distribution Agreement with Piper Jaffray & Co. We may in the future increase the amount that we plan to sell under the Equity Distribution Agreement or otherwise under our Registration Statement on Form S-3, as our public float exceeded $75.0 million as of a date within 60 days of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we are therefore not currently subject to the limitations of General Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3. We have not offered any securities pursuant to General Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3 during the 12 calendar months prior to and including the date of this prospectus.  Public or bank debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, pursuing acquisition opportunities or declaring dividends. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. If we raise funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties or enter into other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Current economic conditions may make it difficult to obtain additional financing on attractive terms, or at all. If financing is unavailable or lost, our business, results of operations, financial condition and financial prospects would be adversely affected and we could be forced to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate many of our planned activities.. Our product sales and commercial transactions should continue to account for a portion of our revenue.. We currently have only one revenue-generating product, IXINITY, following the sale of our three hyperimmune products: WinRho SDF, HepaGam B and VARIZIG. We expect revenues from our product sales and future product candidates to account for a portion of our revenue. The commercial success of IXINTY and future product candidates depends upon:. •  the acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers of IXINITY as safe, therapeutic and cost-effective options;. •  our ability to further develop IXINITY and obtain marketing approval for their use in additional patient populations and the clinical data we generate to support expansion of the product label;. •  the ability of AGC Biologics and our third-party service providers to provide us with sufficient saleable quantities of IXINITY;. •  the impact of competition from existing competitive products and from competitive products that may be approved in the future;. •  the continued safety and efficacy IXINITY;. •  to what extent and in what amount government and third-party payors cover or reimburse for the costs IXINITY; and. •  our success and the success of our third-party distributors in selling and marketing IXINITY.. 20. The failure to maximize the financial contribution of IXINITY could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may choose to increase the price of IXINITY, and these price adjustments may negatively affect our sales volumes. In addition, our product sales may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending on the number of patients receiving treatment, the availability of supply to meet the demand for IXINITY, the dosing requirements of treated patients and other factors. If sales of IXINTY were to decline, we could be required to make an allowance for excess or obsolete inventory, increase our provision for product returns, or we could incur other costs related to operating our business, each of which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. We are constantly evaluating commercial and strategic transactions to generate revenue that include any current collaborations and collaborations or a sale of assets in the future.. We may not be able to engage in certain corporate transactions.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the distribution related to the separation, together with certain related transactions, we are restricted under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Emergent, from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In particular, until August 2019, we are restricted from taking certain actions (including restrictions on share issuances, business combinations, sales of assets, amendments to organizational documents and similar transactions) that could cause the distribution, together with certain related transactions, to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions that might increase the value of our business, including use of our common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, we are required to indemnify Emergent against any tax liabilities and related expenses arising from the failure of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, to be tax-free to the extent such failure is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, including the acquisition of our stock even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict the operation of our business and limit the cash available for investment in our business operations.. In August 2016, we entered into a Credit and Security Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, by and among us and certain our subsidiaries as borrowers, MidCap Financial Trust, as agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto. The terms of the Credit Agreement, and its subsequent amendments, and borrowings we may make under the Credit Agreement in the future, could have significant adverse consequences for our business, including:. •  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to payment on our debt, which would reduce the amounts available to fund other corporate initiatives;. •  increasing the amount of interest that we have to pay on borrowings under the Credit Agreement if market rates of interest increase;. •  not complying with restrictive covenants restricting, among other things, indebtedness, liens, dividends and other distributions, repayment of subordinated indebtedness, mergers, dispositions, investments (including licensing), acquisitions, transactions with affiliates and modification of organizational documents or certain other agreements;. •  not complying with affirmative covenants including payment, reporting and revenue covenants; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, better debt servicing options or stronger debt servicing capacity.. We may not have sufficient funds or be able to obtain additional financing to pay the amounts due under any future borrowings under the Credit Agreement. In addition, failure to comply with the covenants, including but not limited to the revenue covenants, under the Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. An event of default could result in the acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Agreement, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to make any accelerated payments. Under these circumstances, our lenders could seek to enforce security interests in our assets securing our indebtedness.. 21. We face product liability exposure, which could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability inherent in pharmaceutical products, including with respect to the sale of IXINITY, any other product candidates that we successfully develop and the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials. Product liability claims might be made by patients in clinical trials, consumers, health care providers or pharmaceutical companies or others that sell our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that are manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities or otherwise possess regulatory approval for commercial sale or study. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims.. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against future claims that IXINITY or our product candidates caused injuries, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand or withdrawal of a product;. •  adverse publicity and/or injury to our reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  costs to defend the related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. •  loss of revenue; and. •  an inability to commercialize products that we may develop.. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that may occur. Further product liability insurance may be difficult and expensive to obtain. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy all potential liabilities. Claims or losses in excess of our product liability insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of defending any products liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of products liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability claims, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may absorb significant management time and result in reputational harm, potential loss of revenue from decreased demand for our products and/or product candidates, withdrawal of clinical trial participants and potential termination of clinical trial sites or entire clinical programs, and could cause our stock price to fall.. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of IXINITY could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell IXINITY for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. A recall could also result in product liability claims by individuals and third-party payors. In addition, product liability claims could result in an investigation of the safety or efficacy of IXINITY, our manufacturing processes and facilities, or our marketing programs conducted by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or the competent authorities of the EU Member States. Such investigations could also potentially lead to a recall of IXINITY or more serious enforcement actions, limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension, variation, or withdrawal of approval. Any such regulatory action by the FDA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the EU Member States could lead to product liability lawsuits as well.. 22. Our success is dependent on our continued ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel, and any failure to attract or retain key personnel may negatively affect our business.. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete with our current and future competitors largely depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and key scientific and technical personnel. If we are unable to retain the services of one or more of the principal members of senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Marvin L. White, our Chief Financial Officer, Jeffrey G. Lamothe, and our Chief Medical Officer, Scott C. Stromatt, or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy could be materially harmed. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We face intense competition for qualified employees from biotechnology companies, research organizations and academic institutions. Attracting, retaining or replacing these personnel on acceptable terms may be difficult and time-consuming given the high demand in our industry for similar personnel. We believe part of being able to attract, motivate and retain personnel is our ability to offer a competitive compensation package, including equity incentive awards. If we cannot offer a competitive compensation package or otherwise attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow our business.. We are subject to periodic litigation, which could result in losses or unexpected expenditure of time and resources.. From time to time, we may be called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits relating to our business. Any litigation, regardless of its merits, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome in any such proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in securities class action lawsuits in the future.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $41.5 million and $20.2 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, available to reduce future taxable income that will begin to expire in 2028 for federal purposes and 2018 for state tax purposes. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Under the newly enacted federal income tax law, federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal net operating losses is limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and corresponding provision of state law, if a corporation undergoes and \"ownership change,\" which is generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a. 23. result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control. If an ownership change occurs and our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards is materially limited, it would harm our future operating results by effectively increasing our future tax obligations.. Product Development Risks. Serious adverse events, undesirable side effects or other unexpected properties of our product candidates may be identified that could delay, prevent or cause the withdrawal of regulatory approval, limit the commercial potential, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval.. Serious adverse events or undesirable side effects caused by, or other unexpected properties of any of our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt our manufacturing and distribution operations and could result in a more restrictive label, the imposition of distribution or use restrictions or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. If any of our product candidates are associated with serious adverse events or undesirable side effects or have properties that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause undesirable or unexpected side effects that prevented further development of the compound.. For example, as noted above, APVO414 is currently being tested in its first clinical trial in humans. Twenty-one patients have received the drug. One of the significant serious adverse events associated with the drug is infusion reactions. Infusion reactions are often associated with the infusion of a protein and are expected with this drug that activates T-cells. The events that have been reported with infusion of the drug include: fever, fatigue, hypertension, bronchospasm, chills and rigors. The severity of these reactions varied by patient and were managed medically and resolved. In addition, in December 2015, we discovered that patients receiving weekly doses of our product candidate APVO414 developed ADA during use. This ADA, which was not associated with safety issues, developed in most patients including those receiving the maximum tolerated dose of drug which could be given safely on a weekly basis. Undesirable side effects, such as this, or other unexpected adverse events or properties of any of our candidates, could arise or become known either during clinical development or, if approved, after the approved product has been marketed. If such an event occurs during development, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our other product candidates. If such an event occurs, a number of potentially significant negative consequences may result, including:. •  regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label or impose distribution or use restrictions;. •  regulatory authorities may require one or more post-market studies;. •  we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate, or could substantially increase commercialization costs and expenses, which could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the sale of our products and harm our business and results of operations.. We depend on third parties to conduct our clinical and non-clinical trials.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical and non-clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We depend on third parties, such as independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct the clinical and non-clinical trials of our product candidates and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these third parties for successful execution of our clinical and non-clinical trials, but we do not exercise day-to-day control over their. 24. activities. Our reliance on these service providers does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our trials are conducted in accordance with the FDA-approved good clinical practices, or GCPs, and the plan and protocols contained in the relevant regulatory application. In addition, these organizations may not complete these activities on our anticipated or desired timeframe. We also may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider, which may prove difficult, costly and result in a delay of our trials. Any delay in or inability to complete our trials could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates.. If we, contract research organizations or other third parties assisting us or our study sites fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or its non-U.S. counterparts may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCPs. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under GCPs and similar regulations outside of the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our product manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would increase our development costs and delay or impact the likelihood of regulatory approval.. If third parties do not carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, including dosing requirements, or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates or succeed in our efforts to create approved line extensions for certain of our existing products or generate additional useful clinical data in support of these products.. In certain cases, government entities may conduct studies of our product candidates, and we may seek to rely on these studies in applying for marketing approval for certain of our product candidates. These government entities have no obligation or commitment to us to conduct or complete any of these studies or clinical trials and may choose to discontinue these development efforts at any time.. If we are unable to obtain any necessary third-party services on acceptable terms or if these service providers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates may be delayed or prevented.. Commercialization Risks. Our ability to grow revenues and execute on our long-term strategy depends heavily on our ability to discover, develop, and obtain marketing approval for additional products or product candidates.. In order for us to achieve our long-term business objectives, we will need to successfully discover and/or develop and commercialize additional products or product candidates. Although we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in research and development, we have had only a limited number of our internally-discovered product candidates reach the clinical development stage. Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure. Failure to successfully discover and/or develop, obtain marketing approval for and commercialize additional products and product candidates would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow revenues and improve our financial condition.. We may not be successful in our efforts to use and further develop our ADAPTIR platform.. A key element of our strategy is to expand our product pipeline of immunotherapeutics based on our ADAPTIR platform technology. We plan to select and create product candidates for early development, potentially with other collaborative partners. We expect to continue to develop the platform to address unmet medical needs through directed cytokine delivery via monospecifics and bispecifics in areas including oncology, and multispecific. 25. molecules in oncology, autoimmune disease and other therapeutic areas. Our goal is to leverage this technology to make targeted investment in bispecific ADAPTIR therapeutics. Even if we are successful in continuing to build our pipeline, the potential product candidates that we identify may not be suitable for clinical development, including as a result of being shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate that they are unlikely to be products that will receive marketing approval and achieve market acceptance. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize product candidates based on our ADAPTIR platform technology, our ability to obtain product revenues in future periods may be adversely affected, which likely would result in harm to our financial position and our financial prospects and adversely affect our stock price.. We face substantial competition.. The development and commercialization of new biotechnology products is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological advances. We may face future competition with respect to IXINITY, our current product candidates and any product candidates we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future obtained from other companies and governments, universities and other non-profit research organizations. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective, more convenient or less costly than any products that we may develop or market, or may obtain marketing approval for their products from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, or equivalent foreign regulatory bodies more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our products. Our competitors may devote greater resources to market or sell their products, research and development capabilities, adapt more quickly to new technologies, scientific advances or patient preferences and needs, initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully, or more effectively negotiate third-party licensing and collaborative arrangements.. We believe that our most significant competitors in the hematology/oncology, inflammation and transplantation markets include: AbbVie Inc., Aduro, Inc., Affirmed, Amgen Inc., AnaptysBio, Inc., Astellas Pharma Inc., Bayer AG, Biogen Idec Inc., Bioverativ Therapeutics Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, CSL Behring, a subsidiary of CSL Limited, Dendron Corp., Genentech Inc. (a subsidiary of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.), Genmab A/S, Gilead Sciences, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Grifols USA LLC, ImmunoGen, Inc., Immunomedics, Inc., Janssen BioTech Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Macrogenics, Inc., Novartis International AG, Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Sanofi-Adventis US LLC, Shire US Inc., Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc., Xencor, Inc. and Zymeworks Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. We compete, in the case of IXINITY, and expect to compete, in the cases of our product candidates in development, on the basis of product efficacy, safety, ease of administration, price and economic value compared to drugs used in current practice or currently being developed. If we are not successful in demonstrating these attributes, physicians and other key healthcare decision makers may choose other products over our products, switch from our products to new products or choose to use our products only in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, many of our competitors are able to deploy more personnel to market and sell their products than we do. We currently have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other biotechnology companies with marketed products like ours. Each of our sales representatives is responsible for a territory of significant size. The continued growth of IXINITY and the launch of any future products may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization internationally, and we may need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization. We may not be able to achieve any necessary growth in a timely or cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment, and we may not have the financial resources to achieve the necessary growth in a timely manner or at all. We also have to compete with other biotechnology and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales IXINITY. IXINITY and our product candidates may also compete in the future with new products currently under development by others or biosimilar products. Any products that we develop are likely to be in a highly competitive market, and many of our competitors may succeed in developing products before we do or in developing products that may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive.. 26. IXINTY or any of our product candidates, such products or product candidates may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations or third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, which would harm our business.. The success of IXINITY and our product candidates, if approved, will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If IXINITY or any of our product candidates do not achieve and maintain an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material revenues from sales of these products. The degree of market acceptance of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; the prevalence and severity of any side effects; availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; our ability to continuously supply the market without interruption; the relative convenience and ease of administration; the willingness of the target patient population to try new products and of physicians to prescribe these products; the strength of marketing and distribution support; publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and the sufficiency of coverage or reimbursement by third parties.. In the United States and internationally, sales of IXINITY and our ability to generate revenues on such sales are dependent, in significant part, on the availability and level of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Insurers have implemented cost-cutting measures and other initiatives to enforce more stringent reimbursement standards and likely will continue to do so in the future. These measures include the establishment of more restrictive formularies and increases in the out-of-pocket obligations of patients for such products. Third-party payors are also increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Third-party payors may limit access to biotechnology products through the use of prior authorizations and step therapy. Any reimbursement granted may not be maintained, or limits on reimbursement available from third parties, may reduce the demand for or negatively affect the price and potential profitability of those products. If these payors do not provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement for IXINITY or any future drug product we may market, these products may be too costly for general use, and physicians may prescribe them less frequently. Our ability to successfully commercialize IXINITY and product candidates and the demand for our products depends, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement and access is available from such third-party payors.. In addition, particularly in the United States and increasingly in other countries, we are required to provide discounts and pay rebates to state and federal governments and agencies in connection with purchases of IXINITY that are reimbursed by such entities. Various provisions of the ACA increased the levels of rebates and discounts that we have to provide in connection with sales of IXINITY that are paid for, or reimbursed by, certain state and federal government agencies and programs. It is possible that future legislation and regulatory changes in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted, which could potentially impact the reimbursement rates for IXINITY and also could further impact the levels of discounts and rebates we are required to pay to state and federal government entities.. Our revenues also depend on the availability outside the United States of adequate pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors for IXINITY and future drug products, if any.. Outside the United States, certain countries, including a number of EU Member States, set prices and reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, or medicinal products as they are commonly referred to in the EU, with limited participation from the marketing authorization holders. We cannot be sure that these prices and reimbursement will be acceptable to us or our collaborative partners. If the regulatory authorities in these foreign jurisdictions set prices or reimbursement that are not commercially attractive for us or our collaborative partners, our revenues from sales, and the potential profitability of our drug products, in those countries would be negatively affected. An increasing number of countries are taking initiatives to attempt to reduce large budget deficits by focusing cost-cutting efforts on pharmaceuticals for their state-run health care systems. These international price control efforts have impacted all regions of the world, but have been most drastic in the EU.. 27. An inability to convince hospitals and managed care organizations to include IXINITY on their approved formulary lists, may result in our failure to meet revenue expectations.. Hospitals and managed care organizations establish formularies, which are lists of drugs approved for use in the hospital or under a managed care plan. If a drug is not included on the formulary, the ability of our engagement partners and engagement managers to promote and sell the drug may be limited or denied. If we fail to secure and maintain formulary inclusion for IXINITY on favorable terms or are significantly delayed in doing so, we may have difficulty achieving market acceptance of IXINITY and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Healthcare legislature reform measures may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act), or ACA, was enacted, which substantially changed the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacted the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. However, some provisions of the ACA have yet to be fully implemented and certain provisions have been subject to judicial and Congressional challenges, as well as efforts by the Trump Administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the ACA. For example, since January 2017, President Trump has signed two executive orders and other directives designed to delay, circumvent, or loosen certain requirements mandated by the ACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. Additionally, President Trump signed The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 on December 22, 2017, which includes a provision repealing the individual mandate under the ACA, effective January 1, 2019. We continue to evaluate how the ACA and recent efforts to repeal and replace or limit the implementation of the ACA will impact our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2 percent per fiscal year. These reductions went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. Additionally, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny recently over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. For example, there have been several recent Congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. These new laws and initiatives may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our future customers and accordingly, our financial operations.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures.. If we are unable to negotiate and maintain satisfactory arrangements with group purchasing organizations and our distributors financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our ability to sell IXINITY, to hospitals and clinics in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors. These negotiated prices are then made available to a GPO's affiliated hospitals and clinics and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals, clinics and other members may be less likely to purchase IXINITY, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material. 28. adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts on the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position may suffer.. Additionally, we rely on the sales and marketing strength of these distributors and the distribution channels through which they operate for a portion of our revenues. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, or if there is a delay or interruption in the distribution of our products, it could negatively impact our revenues from product sales.. The loss of any of our sole source manufacturers, or delays or problems in the manufacture of IXINITY or our product candidates, could result in product shortages and loss in revenue or delays in clinical development.. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and do not plan to develop such capacity in the foreseeable future. We depend on a limited number of sole source third-party suppliers, including AGC Biologics for our products and product candidates. Accordingly, our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely and competitive manner depend on our third-party manufacturers being able to continue to meet our ongoing commercial and clinical trial needs and perform their contractual obligations. Increases in the prices we pay our suppliers, interruptions in the supply of raw materials or IXINITY themselves or lapses in quality could adversely impact our margins, profitability, cash flows and prospects.. If, for any reason, AGC, sole manufacturer of bulk drug substance for our IXINITY product, does not continue to supply us with IXINITY in a timely fashion and in compliance with applicable quality and regulatory requirements, or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with its obligations to us under our manufacturing arrangement, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach of contract, and its failure to supply us could result in a shortage of IXINITY, which could lead to lost revenue and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, if AGC fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, we may be forced to consider entering into additional manufacturing arrangements with other third-party manufacturers. In each case, we will incur significant costs and time in obtaining the regulatory approvals for these third-party facilities and in taking the necessary steps to prepare these third parties for the manufacture of IXINITY. Because of contractual restraints and the lead-time necessary to obtain FDA approval of a new manufacturer, replacement of any of these manufacturers may be expensive and time consuming and may cause interruptions in our supply of IXINITY to our customers or an inability to manufacture.. For example, during 2015, we ordered nine manufacturing lots of bulk drug substance from AGC and only one of those lots was successfully manufactured and released in 2015. During 2016, we ordered five manufacturing lots of bulk drug substance from AGC and none of these lots satisfied product release specifications.. On March 15, 2017, we announced the successful manufacture of a new bulk drug substance batch of IXINITY, providing new supply of IXINITY for the commercial market in May 2017. We do not currently anticipate or foresee a supply shortage or supply interruption occurring in the future.. Manufacturer of our Products and Product Candidates, especially in large quantities, is complex and time consuming.. IXINITY and all of our current product candidates are biologics. IXINITY and our product candidates must be made consistently and in compliance with a clearly defined manufacturing process. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including problems with raw materials, equipment malfunction or replacement and failure to follow specific protocols and procedures. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including obtaining materials, maintaining master seed or cell banks and preventing genetic drift, seed or cell growth, fermentation and contamination including from, among other things, particulates, filtration, filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping, and quality control testing, may result in lot failures or manufacturing shut-down, delays in the release of lots, product recalls, spoilage or regulatory action.. 29. Failure of our third-party manufacturers to successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's or foreign regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, may prevent regulatory approval of those manufacturing facilities.. We rely on third parties to manufacture all clinical trial materials for our product candidates, and we will rely on third parties to manufacture commercial supplies, if any such product candidates are ultimately approved for commercial sale. Our product candidates, including APVO414, APVO210, otlertuzumab, APVO436, ALG.APV-527, and ROR1 will not be approved for marketing by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities unless the FDA or their foreign equivalents also approve the facilities used by our third-party manufacturers to produce them for commercialization. If our third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's or foreign regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, the FDA or their foreign counterparts will not approve their manufacturing facilities, which would result in significant delays in obtaining FDA or foreign marketing approvals for our product candidates. In order to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, we and our third-party manufacturers must be able to develop and execute on manufacturing processes, and reach agreement on contract terms.. We and our third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet these manufacturing process requirements for any of our current product candidates, all of which have complex manufacturing processes, which make meeting these requirements even more challenging. If we are unable to develop manufacturing processes for our clinical product candidates that satisfy these requirements, we will not be able to supply sufficient quantities of test material to conduct our clinical trials in a timely or cost effective manner, and as a result, our development programs will be delayed, our financial performance will be adversely impacted and we will be unable to meet our long-term goals.. Development and commercialization of IXINITY and our product candidates may be terminated or delayed.. Our development and commercialization strategy involves entering into arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, contract research organizations, distributors, third-party manufacturers, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage or conduct our clinical trials, manufacture IXINITY and our product candidates and market and sell our products outside of the United States and maintaining our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization or manufacture of our products. We may not have the expertise or the resources to conduct all of these activities for all products and product candidates on our own and, as a result, are particularly dependent on third parties in many areas. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful, as the amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products candidates are not within our control. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to IXINITY and our product candidates in development, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with our international activities and operations.. We currently have limited operations outside of the United States. However, we have manufacturing, collaboration, clinical trial and other relationships outside the United States and we may seek to grow our international operations significantly over the next several years. Our future results of operations will depend in part on our ability to grow our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Europe. Our foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, particularly because we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products or otherwise operating our business outside of the United States and Canada. These risks and uncertainties include: political and economic determinations that adversely impact pricing or reimbursement policies; our customers' ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; export licensing requirements, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, and changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; cross border restrictions on the movement of cash funds and repatriation of earnings; foreign currency fluctuations; longer accounts receivable collection times; reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute; and compliance with foreign or U.S. laws, rules and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which could subject us to investigation or prosecution under such U.S. or foreign laws.. 30. Regulatory and Compliance Risks. Our long-term success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates.. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development, including testing, manufacture, recordkeeping, storage and approval, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Generally, failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have limited resources for use in preparing, filing and supporting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals and expect to rely on third-party contract research organizations and consultants to assist us in this process.. The FDA and other comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries impose substantial and rigorous requirements for the development, production, marketing authorization and commercial introduction of drug products. These requirements include preclinical, laboratory and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities, clinical trials and other costly and time-consuming procedures. In addition, regulation is not static, and regulatory authorities, including the FDA evolve in their staff interpretations and practices and may impose more stringent or different requirements than currently in effect, which may adversely affect our planned and ongoing drug development and/or our sales and marketing efforts.. In the United States, to obtain approval from the FDA to market any of our future biologic products, we will be required to submit a biologics license application, or BLA, to the FDA. Ordinarily, the FDA requires a sponsor to support a BLA with substantial evidence of the product's safety, purity and potency in treating the targeted indication based on data derived from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials, including Phase 3 safety and efficacy trials conducted in patients with the disease or condition being targeted.. Developing and obtaining regulatory approval for product candidates is a lengthy process, often taking a number of years, is uncertain and is expensive. All of the product candidates that we are developing, or may develop in the future, require research and development, preclinical studies, nonclinical testing and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval and commencing commercial sales. In addition, we may need to address a number of technological challenges in order to complete development of our product candidates. As a result, the development of product candidates may take longer than anticipated or not be successful at all.. Generally, no product can receive FDA approval, marketing authorization from the European Commission or the competent authorities of the EU Member States, or approval from comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries unless data generated in human clinical trials demonstrates both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with such authority's standards.. The large majority of product candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the required safety and efficacy characteristics necessary for marketing approval. Failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates for each target indication in clinical trials would prevent us from obtaining required approvals from regulatory authorities, which would prevent us from commercializing those product candidates. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials or adverse medical events during the trials could lead to requirements that trials be repeated or extended, or that additional trials be conducted, any of which may not be clinically feasible or financially practicable, that the conduct of trials be suspended, or that a program be terminated.. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may limit the indicated uses for the product or subject the product to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product commercially non-viable. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive non-clinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product's safety and efficacy. If we are unable to submit the necessary data and information, for example, because the results of clinical trials are not favorable, or if the applicable regulatory authority delays reviewing or does not approve our applications, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval.. 31. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals may: delay or prevent the successful commercialization of any of the products or product candidates in the jurisdiction for which approval is sought; diminish our competitive advantage; and defer or decrease our receipt of revenue.. Certain of our products in development have experienced regulatory and/or clinical setbacks in the past. For example, in December 2015, after a review of data from the Phase 1 dose escalation study of APVO414 in prostate cancer patients, we concluded that the dosing regimen and administration required adjustment. Patients receiving weekly doses of APVO414 developed antibodies against the drug; which are called anti-drug antibodies, or ADA. ADA developed in most patients including those receiving the maximum tolerated dose of drug that could be given safely on a weekly basis. These antibodies bind to the drug and reduce the concentration of active APVO414 in the blood and thus could potentially reduce its efficacy. However, we observed no safety issues related to the development of ADA. The cause of these antibodies is unclear but could be due to the weekly administration of the drug. Hence, the protocol has been amended to continuous intravenous infusion as a way to administer higher levels of drug and prevent the development of ADA. There is no guarantee that this change in administration will enable higher dosing and/or prevent the development of ADA. The procedures to obtain marketing approvals vary among countries and can involve additional clinical trials or other pre-filing requirements. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, or different or additional risks. Regulatory agencies may have varying interpretations of the same data, and approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Accordingly, approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products and products in development in any market on a timely basis, if at all.. Biotechnology company stock prices have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to obtain FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of a product candidate or if the timing of FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval is delayed. If the FDA's or any foreign regulatory authority's response to any application for approval is delayed or not favorable for any of our product candidates, our stock price could decline significantly.. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated, and we may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting the \"off-label\" use of any of our products.. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. For example, the FDA-approved label for IXINITY is not approved for use in patients younger than twelve years old. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products and product candidates, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected.. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. These \"off-label\" uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for some patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the United States generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA's regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to issue warning letters or untitled letters, suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market, require a recall or institute fines, which could result in the disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or civil or criminal enforcement, any of which could harm our business.. 32. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We engage in medical education activities and communicate with investigators and potential investigators regarding our clinical trials. If the FDA or other regulatory or enforcement authorities determine that our communications regarding our marketed product are not in compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements and that we have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Our products may face regulatory, legal or commercial challenges even after approval.. Any drug or, biologic for which we receive FDA approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and restrictions on advertising and promotion. Adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on the product's distribution or use and, potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from the market. In addition, various state laws require that companies that manufacture and/or distribute drug products within the state obtain and maintain a manufacturer or distributor license, as appropriate. Because of the breadth of these laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, or those of our third-party manufacturers and distributors, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws.. In addition, the FDA has post-approval authority to require post-approval clinical trials and/or safety labeling changes if warranted by the appearance of new safety information. In certain circumstances, the FDA may impose a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, after a product has been approved. Facilities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP and other laws. The FDA also closely monitors advertising and promotional materials we may disseminate for our products for compliance with restrictions on off-label promotion and other laws. We may not promote our products for conditions of use that are not included in the approved package inserts for our products. Certain additional restrictions on advertising and promotion exist for products that have so-called boxed warnings in their approved package inserts.. Failure by AGC or our other third-party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products or ingredients to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with the FDA's current cGMP requirements. The FDA enforces its cGMP and other requirements through periodic unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. If, in connection with any future inspection, the FDA finds that any of our third-party manufacturers is not in substantial compliance with cGMP requirements, or if the FDA is not satisfied with the corrective actions such manufacturer may take, the FDA may undertake certain enforcement actions, including product seizure or withdrawal of the product from the market, imposition of restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of a product and suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements.. Similar actions may be taken against us should we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, or later discover previously unknown problems with our products. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. If we experience any of these post-approval events, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. 33. If we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a biotechnology company, even though we do not provide healthcare services or receive payments directly from or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for our products, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are applicable to our business. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute makes it illegal for any person or entity, including a prescription drug manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf to knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase, prescribing or recommendation of an item, good, facility or service reimbursable by a federally funded healthcare program, such as the Medicare or Medicaid program. The term \"remuneration\" has been interpreted broadly and may constrain our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, among other activities;. •  federal civil and criminal false claims, including the federal False Claims Act, and false statement laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other payors that are false or fraudulent or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services;. •  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, including the final omnibus rule published on January 25, 2013, mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA's security standards directly applicable to \"business associates\", or independent contractors or agents of covered entities that create, receive or obtain protected health information in connection with providing a service for or on behalf of a covered entity;. •  federal physician self-referral laws, such as the Stark law, which prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician's family member has a financial interest, and prohibit submission of a claim for reimbursement pursuant to a prohibited referral;. •  the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which imposes annual disclosure requirements to CMS on manufacturers of drugs, biologics and devices reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program of certain payments and transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and. •  state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts; state, local and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, obtain pharmaceutical agent licensure, and/or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; and state, local and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to other healthcare providers or entities or marketing expenditures.. 34. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the ACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal health care fraud statutes, so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act.. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under the federal false claims laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. To the extent that any product we make is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations.. Further, there has been a recent trend in the increase of federal and state laws and regulations regarding financial arrangements with physicians. The ACA imposes new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and others, including reporting any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers and reporting any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during each calendar year, subject to federal implementation and enforcement policies.. In addition, certain states mandate that we comply with a state code of conduct, adopt a company code of conduct under state criteria, disclose marketing payments made to physicians, and/or report compliance information to the state authorities. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply in multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements increase the possibility that a pharmaceutical company may violate one or more of the requirements. Any failure to comply with these reporting requirements could result in significant fines and penalties.. The risks of complying with these laws cannot be entirely eliminated. The risk of violation of such laws is also increased because many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, fraud and transparency laws may prove costly. If our past or present operations, or those of our distributors are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to sanctions, including civil and administrative penalties, criminal fines, damages, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health care programs, individual imprisonment, integrity obligations, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Similarly, if healthcare providers, distributors or other entities with whom we do business are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us.. If we fail to comply with our obligations under U.S. governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could pay penalties, sanctions and fines.. The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid rebate program will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance and will be time-consuming. Changes to the definition of \"average manufacturer price,\" or AMP, and the Medicaid rebate amount under the ACA and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services', or CMS's, issuance of final regulations implementing those changes also has affected and could further affect our 340B \"ceiling price\" calculations. Because we participate in the Medicaid rebate program, we are required to report \"average sales price,\" or ASP, information to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid for under Part B of the Medicare program, including IXINITY. Future statutory or regulatory changes or CMS binding guidance could affect the ASP calculations for our products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations.. 35. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs, involve complex calculations and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current AMP and \"best price\" for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Any such revisions could have the impact of increasing or decreasing our rebate liability for prior quarters, depending on the direction of the revision. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid rebate program. Price recalculations also may affect the \"ceiling price\" at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B/PHS drug pricing program.. In addition to retroactive rebate liability and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, we are subject to civil monetary penalties for each such price misrepresentation and for each day in which such price misrepresentation was applied. If we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP or \"best price\" information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties per item of false information. Any refusal of a request for information or knowing provision of false information in connection with an AMP survey verification also would subject us to civil monetary penalties. In addition, our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP or \"best price\" information on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect.. In order for our products to be reimbursed by the primary federal governmental programs, we report certain pricing data to the U.S. federal government. Compliance with reporting and other requirements of these federal programs is a pre-condition to: (i) the availability of federal funds to pay for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B; and (ii) procurement of our products by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or DVA, and by covered entities under the 340B/PHS program. The pricing data reported are used as the basis for establishing Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, and 340B/PHS program contract pricing and payment and rebate rates under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs, respectively. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under federal and state false claims laws for submitting inaccurate and/or incomplete pricing information to the government that resulted in increased payments made by these programs. The rules governing the calculation of certain reported prices are highly complex. Although we maintain and follow strict procedures to ensure the maximum possible integrity for our federal pricing calculations, the process for making the required calculations involves some subjective judgments and the risk of errors always exists, which creates the potential for exposure under the false claims laws. If we become subject to investigations or other inquiries concerning our compliance with price reporting laws and regulations, and our methodologies for calculating federal prices are found to include flaws or to have been incorrectly applied, we could be required to pay or be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and certain federal grantees, we also must participate in the DVA FSS pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract with the DVA, under which we must make our innovator \"covered drugs\" available to the \"Big Four\" federal agencies - the DVA, the U.S. Department of Defense, or the DoD, the Public Health Service (including the Indian Health Service), and the Coast Guard - at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or VHCA. The FCP is based on a weighted average wholesale price known as the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, or Non-FAMP, which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the DVA. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject us to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to disclose the error and refund the difference to the. 36. government. The failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our operations, including our use of hazardous materials, chemicals, bacteria and viruses, require us to comply with regulatory requirements and expose us to significant potential liabilities.. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals, and may produce dangerous waste products. Accordingly, we, along with the third parties that conduct clinical trials and manufacture our products and product candidates on our behalf, are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern the use, manufacture, distribution, storage, handling, exposure, disposal and recordkeeping with respect to these materials. We are also subject to a variety of environmental and occupational health and safety laws. Compliance with current or future laws and regulations can require significant costs and we could be subject to substantial fines and penalties in the event of noncompliance. In addition, the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In such event, we could be held liable for substantial civil damages or costs associated with the cleanup of hazardous materials.. Our failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results.. EU Member States, Switzerland and other countries have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU Member States, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. Data protection authorities from the different EU Member States may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the European Union, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results. The revised EU Data Protection Directive adopted in April 2016 may also increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules.. Intellectual Property Risks. If we are unable to protect our intellectual proprietary rights, our business could be harmed.. Our commercial success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology, products and product candidates. Obtaining and maintaining this protection is very costly. The patentability of technology in the biotechnology field generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We cannot be certain that our patents and patent applications, including our own and those that we have rights through licenses from third parties, will adequately protect our intellectual property. Our success protecting our intellectual property depends significantly on our ability to:. •  obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patents, that are meaningful to our products, including defending those patents against adverse claims;. •  secure patent term extension for the patents covering our approved products;. •  protect trade secrets;. •  operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and. •  prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights.. 37. We may not be able to obtain issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents may inadvertently lapse or be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the duration of patent protection we may have for our products. Further, patents may lapse prior to the regulatory approval of the underlying product in one or more territories. In the past, we have abandoned the prosecution and/or maintenance of patent applications related to patent families in the ordinary course of business. In the future we may choose to abandon such prosecution and/or maintenance in a similar fashion. If these patent rights are later determined to be valuable or necessary to our business, our competitive position may be adversely affected. Changes in patent laws or administrative patent office rules or changes in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and in other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection, or result in costly defensive measures.. The cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents, once obtained, to prevent infringement or to otherwise protect or enforce our proprietary rights could be substantial and, from time to time, our patents are subject to patent office proceedings. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they may have substantially greater financial resources. Intellectual property lawsuits are expensive and unpredictable and would consume management's time and attention and other resources, even if the outcome were successful. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions covered by or incorporating them. There is also a risk that, even if the validity of a patent were upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party from using the invention(s), including on the grounds that its activities do not infringe the patent. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition to patent litigation, we may be a party to adversarial proceedings before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) of the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), or the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office (EPO). Potential proceedings before the PTAB include inter parties review proceedings, post-grant review proceedings and interference proceedings. Depending on our level of success at the PTAB and Opposition Division of the EPO, these proceedings could adversely impact our intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology.. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. This combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained, and with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Patent and intellectual property laws outside of the United States may also change and be uncertain.. Our collaborative partners and licensors may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. These third parties may have the first right to maintain or defend intellectual property rights in which we have an interest and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of such intellectual property rights if these third parties do not do so, our ability to maintain and defend such intellectual property rights may be compromised by the acts or omissions of these third parties.. Our patents, once obtained, also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that others have not filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of these applications.. We also will rely on current and future trademarks to establish and maintain recognized brands. If we fail to acquire and protect such trademarks, our ability to market and sell our products, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, could be materially and adversely affected.. 38. Third parties may choose to file patent infringement claims against us.. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties under which we do not hold sufficient licenses or other rights. Third parties may be successful in obtaining patent protection for technologies that cover development and commercialization activities in which we are already engaged. These third parties may have substantially greater financial resources than us and could bring claims against us that could cause us to incur substantial expenses to defend against these claims and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. If a patent infringement or other similar suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology industry is common, and we expect this trend to continue.. As a result of patent infringement or other similar claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, or if an injunction is granted against us, which could harm our business significantly.. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other adversarial proceedings such as proceedings before the PTAB and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology.. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time.. Our Aptevo trademarks may be opposed which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. We have applications pending that cover the APTEVO THERAPEUTICS, APTEVO BIOTHERAPEUTICS and APTEVO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT trademarks. We refer to these trademarks as our house marks. If a third party opposes any of these house marks and we are unable to reach settlement prior to the commencement of an opposition proceeding, we may incur significant expense in the course of participating in the opposition process, which can be expensive and lengthy. Any settlement with a third party may result in our agreeing to be subject to restrictions on our use of the relevant house mark. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in an opposition against a house mark, we would lose the ability to obtain trademark registration for one or more uses of the relevant mark both in the United States and in other territories which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Synoptis Pharma Sp. z.o.o., or Synoptis, has opposed several of our house marks in the European Union. Despite efforts to initiate discussions with Synoptis regarding use of our house marks, Synoptis has refused to enter into settlement agreements. Our foreign counsel is investigating possible cancellation of Synoptis' registrations based on nonuse, which may allow the parties to enter negotiation discussions. If the event we are unsuccessful with our efforts to negotiate a settlement with Synoptis, we may lose our ability to obtain trademark registration for one or more of the house marks in the European Union, where Synoptis has opposed the marks, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. 39. The Bristol Myers Squibb Company, or BMS, previously opposed several of our house marks in and outside the United States. We entered into a settlement and co-existence agreement with BMS and its licensee, Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd on July 5, 2017. BMS subsequently withdrew oppositions of our house marks. The settlement and co-existence agreement places restrictions on how we can use our house marks and how we can seek trademark protection for our house marks.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Failure to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, could result in loss of license rights or other damages.. We are a party to a number of license agreements and expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or in part, terminate the exclusive nature of the license and/or sue us for breach, which could cause us to not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents and may be subject to damages.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected.. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, information processes and know-how. These types of trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect this confidential information, in part, through agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties as well as confidentiality policies and audits, although these may not be successful in protecting our trade secrets and confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known, including through a potential cyber security breach, or may be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business.. Risk Related to Collaborations. We may not be successful in establishing and maintaining collaborations that leverage our capabilities in pursuit of developing and commercializing our product candidates.. For each of our product candidates, including otlertuzumab, we plan to evaluate the merits of entering into collaboration arrangements with third parties, including leading biotechnology companies or non-governmental organizations. In July 2017, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Alligator Bioscience AB, or Alligator, pursuant to which Aptevo R&D and Alligator will collaboratively develop ALG.APV-527, a lead bispecific antibody candidate simultaneously targeting 4-1BB (CD137), a member of the TNFR superfamily of a costimulatory receptor found on activated T-cells, and 5T4 a tumor antigen widely overexpressed in a number of different types of cancer. We expect to selectively pursue collaboration arrangements with third parties that have particular technology, expertise or resources for the development or commercialization of our product candidates or for accessing particular markets. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate partners for our product candidates. If we are unable to identify partners whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours and reach collaboration arrangements with such partners on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all, or if the arrangements we establish are unproductive for us, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the particular product candidate. Our ability to enter into such arrangements with respect to products in development that are subject to licenses may be limited by the terms of those licenses.. 40. Any collaboration that we have entered into, such as our agreement with Alligator, or may consider entering into, may not be successful and the success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborative partners. It is likely that our collaborative partners will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations.. The risks that we are subject to in any of our collaborations include, among others:. •  our collaborative partners may not commit adequate resources to the development, marketing and distribution of any collaboration products, limiting our potential revenues from these products;. •  our collaborative partners may experience financial difficulties and may therefore be unable to meet their commitments to us;. •  our collaborative partners may pursue a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and. •  our collaborative partners may terminate our relationship.. The failure of any of our current or future collaboration partners to perform as expected could place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect us financially, including delay and increased costs of development, loss of market opportunities, lower than expected revenues and impairment of the value of the related product candidate. A loss of Aptevo's collaboration agreement with Alligator would result in a burden of locating a replacement partner under potentially less favorable terms at an additional cost. Collaborations are a critical part of our business strategy, and any inability on our part to establish and successfully maintain such arrangements on terms favorable to us or to work successfully with our collaborative partners could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. If we do not continue to develop effective internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and our business could be harmed.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, beginning in 2018, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, will require us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm potentially to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As an emerging growth company, we have availed ourselves of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. However, we may no longer avail ourselves of this exemption when we cease to be an emerging growth company. When our independent registered public accounting firm is required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, the cost of our compliance with Section 404 will correspondingly increase. Our compliance with applicable provisions of Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues as we implement additional corporate governance practices and comply with reporting requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 applicable to us in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Investor perceptions of our company may suffer if material weaknesses are found, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our operating results and reputation. If we are unable to implement these requirements effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting, or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on our internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm.. 41. In connection with our separation from Emergent, we and Emergent agreed to indemnify the other party for certain liabilities. The Emergent indemnity may not be sufficient to hold us harmless from the full amount of liabilities for which Emergent will be allocated responsibility, and Emergent may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future.. Pursuant to the separation agreement and certain other agreements with Emergent, Emergent has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify Emergent for certain liabilities. Indemnities that we may be required to provide Emergent are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Emergent has agreed to retain. Any amounts we are required to pay pursuant to these indemnification obligations and other liabilities could require us to divert cash that would otherwise have been used in furtherance of our operating business. Further, the indemnity from Emergent may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and Emergent may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Emergent any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future. Since August 1, 2016, the reported sale price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.19 and $4.26 per share. The stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control or unrelated to our operations, including, among others:. •  changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or management, or our ability to meet those estimates;. •  investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance;. •  the success of competitive products or technologies;. •  the timing, expenses and results of clinical and non-clinical trials of our product candidates;. •  announcements regarding clinical trial results and product introductions by us or our competitors;. •  announcements of acquisitions, collaborations, financings or other transactions by us;. •  public concern as to the safety of our products;. •  termination or delay of a development program;. •  the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  actual or anticipated variations in our product revenue and results of operations;. •  the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. •  general industry conditions and domestic and worldwide financial, economic and political instability; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, when the market price of a company's common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources.. 42. The public announcement of data from clinical studies or news of any developments related to our product pipeline may cause significant volatility in our stock price.. The announcement of data from clinical studies by us or our collaborative partners or news of any developments related to our key pipeline product candidates may cause significant volatility in our stock price. Furthermore, the announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of any of our key pipeline product candidates, or any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. There can be no assurance that data from clinical studies will support a filing for regulatory approval or even if approved, that any of our key pipeline products will become commercially successful.. Your percentage of ownership in Aptevo may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in Aptevo may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards to our directors, officers and employees. Our employees have options to purchase shares of our common stock and we have issued significant number of restricted stock units that will vest over time. From time to time, we may issue additional options or other stock-based awards to our employees under our employee benefits plans.. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. Fuad El-Hibri, the chairman of our Board of Directors, has significant influence over us through his substantial beneficial ownership of our common stock, including an ability to influence the election of the members of our Board of Directors, or delay or prevent a change of control of us.. Mr. El-Hibri has the ability to significantly influence the election of the members of our Board of Directors due to his substantial beneficial ownership of our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. El-Hibri was the beneficial owner of approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. El-Hibri could delay or prevent a change of control of us that may be favored by other directors or stockholders and otherwise exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring board or stockholder approval, including any amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws. The control by Mr. El-Hibri may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. In addition, Mr. El-Hibri's significant beneficial ownership of our shares could present the potential for a conflict of interest.. Provisions under Delaware law and in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may discourage acquisition proposals, delay a change in control or prevent transactions that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and under Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other changes in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our incumbent directors and management.. These provisions include:. •  the classification of our directors;. •  limitations on the removal of directors;. 43. •  limitations on filling vacancies on the board;. •  advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors and other proposals;. •  the inability of stockholders to act by written consent;. •  the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; and. •  the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. The affirmative vote of holders of our capital stock representing at least 75% of the voting power of all outstanding stock entitled to vote is required to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. The affirmative vote of either a majority of the directors present at a meeting of our Board of Directors or holders of our capital stock representing at least 75% of the voting power of all outstanding stock entitled to vote is required to amend or repeal our by-laws.. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us.. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, for a period of two years following the separation, we are restricted from taking certain actions (including restrictions on business combinations and share issuances) that could cause the distribution, together with certain related transactions, to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We would be required to indemnify Emergent for any taxes and related expenses resulting from the failure of the transactions to so qualify to the extent that the failure is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating our stock, assets or business, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable.. Our by-laws include an exclusive forum provision that could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a judicial forum viewed by stockholders as more favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees or certain stockholders.. Our by-laws provide that the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for certain legal proceedings, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage lawsuits against us or our directors or officers. Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A significant portion of our shares may be sold into the market at any time which could depress our stock price. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, our market price could decline. In addition, holders of an aggregate of approximately three million shares of our common stock have the right to require us to register these shares of common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under specified circumstances."
