[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties including those described below. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or others not specified below materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial majority of our revenue. If we fail to retain or expand our customer relationships or if our customers cancel or reduce their purchase commitments, our revenue could decline significantly.. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of customers. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to Intel Corporation, or Intel, and Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, our two largest customers. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, sales to Intel accounted for approximately 60%, 68% and 78% of our revenue, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, sales to Cisco accounted for approximately 28%, 21% and 13% of our revenue, respectively. Substantially all of our sales to date, including sales to Intel and Cisco, have been made on a purchase order basis, which orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed with little or no notice or penalty. As a result of this customer concentration, our revenue could fluctuate materially and could be materially and disproportionately impacted by purchasing decisions of Intel, Cisco or any other significant customer. In the future, Intel, Cisco or any other significant customer may decide to purchase fewer units than they have in the past, may alter their purchasing patterns at any time with limited notice, or may decide not to continue to purchase our semiconductor solutions at all, any of which could cause our revenue to decline materially and materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our relationships with existing customers may deter potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our semiconductor solutions. If we are unable to diversify our customer base, we will continue to be susceptible to risks associated with customer concentration.. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate.. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate from period to period in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors:. •  customer demand and product life cycles;. •  the receipt, reduction or cancellation of orders by customers;. •  fluctuations in the levels of component inventories held by our customers, which have in the past caused significant fluctuations in our revenue;. •  the gain or loss of significant customers;. •  market acceptance of our products and our customers' products;. •  our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis;. •  the timing and extent of product development costs;. •  new product announcements and introductions by us or our competitors;. •  our research and development costs and related new product expenditures;. •  seasonality and fluctuations in sales by product manufacturers that incorporate our semiconductor solutions into their products;. 21. •  end-market demand into which we have limited insight, including cyclicality, seasonality and the competitive landscape;. •  cyclical fluctuations in the semiconductor market;. •  fluctuations in our manufacturing yields;. •  significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers; and. •  changes in our pricing, product cost and product mix.. As a result of these and other factors, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods, or any historical trends reflected in such results, as indications of our future revenue or operating performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could cause our stock price to decline.. We have an accumulated deficit and have incurred net losses in the past, and we may continue to incur net losses in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $197.7 million. We generated net losses of $5.4 million, $0.4 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We may continue to incur net losses in the future.. Our success and future revenue depend on our ability to achieve design wins and to convince our current and prospective customers to design our products into their product offerings. If we do not continue to win designs or our products are not designed into our customers' product offerings, our results of operations and business will be harmed.. We sell our semiconductor solutions to customers who include our solutions in their hardware products. This selection process is typically lengthy and may require us to incur significant design and development expenditures and dedicate scarce engineering resources in pursuit of a single design win. If we fail to convince our current or prospective customers to include our products in their product offerings or fail to achieve a consistent number of design wins, our results of operations and business will be harmed.. Because of our extended sales cycle, our revenue in future years is highly dependent on design wins we are awarded today. It is typical that a design win today will not result in meaningful revenue until one year or later, if at all. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, substantially all of our revenue was derived from design wins for which revenue was first recognized more than 12 months beforehand. If we do not continue to win designs in the short term, our revenue in the following years will deteriorate.. Further, a significant portion of our revenue in any period may depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customer's products into which our product is designed could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sales to our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their product offerings with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty.. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, a significant delay or negative development in our customers' product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The success of our products is dependent on our customers' ability to develop products that achieve market acceptance, and our customers' failure to do so could negatively affect our business.. The success of our semiconductor solutions is heavily dependent on the timely introduction, quality and market acceptance of our customers' products incorporating our solutions, which may be impacted by factors beyond our control. Our customers' products are often very complex and subject to design complexities that may result in design. 22. flaws, as well as potential defects, errors and bugs. We have in the past been subject to delays and project cancellations as a result of design flaws in the products developed by our customers, changing market requirements, such as the customer adding a new feature, or because a customer's product fails their end customer's evaluation or field trial. In other cases, customer products are delayed due to incompatible deliverables from other vendors. We incur significant design and development costs in connection with designing our products for customers' products that may not ultimately achieve market acceptance. If our customers discover design flaws, defects, errors or bugs in their products, or if they experience changing market requirements, failed evaluations or field trials, or incompatible deliverables from other vendors, they may delay, change or cancel a project, and we may have incurred significant additional development costs and may not be able to recoup our costs, which in turn would adversely affect our business and financial results.. Defects in our products could harm our relationships with our customers and damage our reputation.. Defects in our products may cause our customers to be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers and adversely impact our reputation and financial results. The process of identifying a defective or potentially defective product in systems that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources. Further, if we are unable to determine the root cause of a problem or find an appropriate solution, we may delay shipment to customers. As a result, we may incur significant replacement costs and contract damage claims from our customers, and our reputation and financial results may be adversely affected.. Our target markets may not grow or develop as we currently expect, and if we fail to penetrate new markets and scale successfully within those markets, our revenue and financial condition would be harmed.. A substantial majority of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was derived from the data center market. In 2014, we began introducing products for the enterprise infrastructure market and, in 2016, we began introducing products into the access market which serves the client connectivity and carrier access markets. We are currently developing solutions for Multi-Gig Ethernet over copper with major car manufacturers and Tier-1 suppliers in the automotive market. Any deterioration in these markets or reduction in capital spending to support these markets could lead to a reduction in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Further, if our target markets do not grow or develop in ways that we currently expect, demand for our technology may not materialize as expected, which would also negatively impact our business.. We may be unable to predict the timing or development of trends in these end markets with any accuracy and these trends may not be beneficial to us. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for these solutions, our business will suffer. A market shift towards an industry standard that we may not support could significantly decrease the demand for our solutions. For example, we have invested significant resources in developing semiconductor solutions to address 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet, or GbE, and 5GbE operation over today's Cat5e and Cat6 cabling infrastructure. If these technologies are not adopted as an industry standard, our investment may not lead to future revenue.. Our future revenue growth, if any, will depend in part on our ability to expand within our existing markets, our ability to continue to penetrate newer markets, such as the access market which we entered in 2016, and our ability to enter into new markets, such as the automotive market. Each of these markets presents distinct and substantial challenges and risks and, in many cases, requires us to develop new customized solutions to address the particular requirements of that market. Meeting the technical requirements and securing design wins in any of these new markets will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We cannot assure you that we will secure design wins from these or other new markets, or that we will achieve meaningful revenue from sales with these markets. If any of these markets do not develop as we currently anticipate or if we are unable to penetrate them and scale in them successfully, our projected revenue would decline.. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our operating results and stock price could suffer.. In order to succeed in executing our business plan, we will need to manage our growth effectively as we make significant investments in research and development and sales and marketing, and expand our operations and. 23. infrastructure both domestically and internationally. In addition, in connection with operating as a public company, we will incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in our expenses, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in future periods.. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to expand our operations, engineering, financial accounting, internal management and other systems, procedures and controls. This may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts may not be successful. Any failure to successfully implement systems enhancements and improvements will likely have a negative impact on our ability to manage our expected growth, as well as our ability to ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems and compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new semiconductor solutions, and we may fail to satisfy customer product or support requirements, maintain the quality of our solutions, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our brand, results of operations and overall business.. The average selling prices of our products and of other products in our markets have decreased historically over time and may do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins.. The average selling prices of our products and of other semiconductor products in the markets we serve generally have decreased over time. Our revenue is derived from sales to large customers and, in some cases, we have agreed in advance to modest price reductions, generally over a period of time ranging from 18 months to five years, once the specified product begins to ship in volume. However, our customers may change their purchase orders and demand forecasts at any time with limited notice due in part to fluctuating end-market demand, which can sometimes lead to price renegotiations. Although these price renegotiations can sometimes result in the average selling prices fluctuating over the shorter term, we expect average selling prices generally to decline over the longer term as our products mature.. We seek to offset the anticipated reductions in our average selling prices by reducing the cost of our products through improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, assembly and testing costs, developing new products, enhancing lower-cost products on a timely basis and increasing unit sales. However, if we are unable to offset these anticipated reductions in our average selling prices, our results of operations, cash flows and overall business could be negatively affected.. If we are not able to successfully introduce and ship in volume new products as our existing products near the end of their product lifecycle, our business and revenue will suffer.. We have developed products that we anticipate will have product life cycles of 10 years or more, as well as other products in more volatile high growth or rapidly changing areas, which may have shorter life cycles. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce new technologies and products that generate new sources of revenue to replace, or build upon, existing revenue streams that may be dependent upon limited product life cycles. If we are unable to repeatedly introduce, in successive years, new products that ship in volume, or if our transition to these new products does not successfully occur prior to any decrease in revenue from our prior products, our revenue will likely decline significantly and rapidly.. Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition.. Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including customer and product mix, market acceptance of our new products, timing and seasonality of the end-market demand, yield, wafer pricing, competitive pricing dynamics and geographic and market pricing strategies.. Further, because we are so dependent on a few large customers, these customers have significant leverage with respect to negotiating pricing and other terms with us and may put downward pressure on our margins. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we have in the past and will in the future offer certain customers favorable prices, which would decrease our average selling prices and likely impact gross margins. Further, we may also offer. 24. pricing incentives to our customers on earlier generations of products that inherently have a higher cost structure, which would negatively affect our gross margins.. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could further reduce our gross margins. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and volume-based cost reductions to drive cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and optimize die size, and other price and performance factors that enable us to increase revenue while maintaining gross margins. To the extent that such cost reductions or revenue increases do not occur in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, we maintain inventory of our products at various stages of production and in finished good inventory. We hold these inventories in anticipation of customer orders. If those customer orders do not materialize, we may have excess or obsolete inventory which we would have to reserve or write off, and our gross margins would be adversely affected.. Our customers require our products and our third-party contractors to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process which does not assure product sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, our business and operating results would suffer.. Prior to purchasing our semiconductor solutions, our customers require that both our solutions and our third-party contractors undergo extensive qualification processes, which involve testing of our products in the customers' systems, as well as testing for reliability. This qualification process may continue for several months. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision in our third-party contractors' manufacturing process or our selection of a new supplier may require a new qualification process with our customers, which may result in delays and in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take several months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or systems that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, sales of those products to the customer may be precluded or delayed, which would cause our business and operating results to suffer.. We may be subject to warranty or product liability claims, which could result in unexpected expenses and loss of market share.. From time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend those claims, replace our solutions, refund payments or pay damage awards. We generally agree to indemnify our customers for defects in our products.. If a customer's equipment fails in use, the customer may incur significant monetary damages, including an equipment recall or associated replacement expenses as well as lost revenue. The customer may claim that a defect in our product caused the equipment failure and assert a claim against us to recover monetary damages. In certain situations, circumstances might warrant that we consider incurring the costs or expense related to a recall of one of our products in order to avoid the potential claims that may be raised should a customer reasonably rely upon our product and suffer a failure due to a design or manufacturing process defect. In addition, the cost of defending these claims and satisfying any arbitration award or judgment with respect to these claims would result in unexpected expenses and could harm our business prospects. Although we carry product liability insurance, this insurance is subject to significant deductibles and may not adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products or otherwise.. If we fail to accurately anticipate and respond to rapid technological change in the industries in which we operate, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed.. We operate in industries characterized by rapidly changing technologies as well as technological obsolescence. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the delay or cancellation of any of our customers' product. 25. offerings for which our semiconductor solutions are designed, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products uncompetitive, obsolete and otherwise unmarketable. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to changing market demand, whether due to technological shifts or otherwise, could result in the loss of customers and decreased revenue and have an adverse effect on our operating results.. If our products do not conform to, or are not compatible with, existing or emerging industry standards, demand for our existing solutions may decrease, which in turn would harm our business and operating results.. We design certain of our products to conform to current industry standards. Some industry standards may not be widely adopted or implemented uniformly, and competing standards may emerge that may be preferred by our customers or by our third-party suppliers. In addition, existing standards may be challenged as infringing upon the intellectual property rights of other companies or may be superseded by new innovations or standards.. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards in our target markets, including in the data center and enterprise infrastructure markets. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by third-party suppliers or make it difficult for our products to meet the requirements of certain original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. If our customers or our third-party suppliers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our solutions are not compatible, or if industry groups fail to adopt standards with which our solutions are compatible, our products would become less desirable to our current or prospective customers. As a result, our sales would suffer, and we could be required to make significant expenditures to develop new solutions.. Although we believe our products are fully compliant with applicable industry standards, proprietary enhancements may not in the future result in full conformance with existing industry standards under all circumstances. Due to the interdependence of various components in the systems within which our products and the products of our competitors operate, once a design is adopted, customers are unlikely to switch to another design until the next generation of the applicable technology. For example, we have developed our AQrate technology, which is designed to address 2.5GbE and 5GbE operation over today's Cat5e and Cat6 cabling infrastructure. If this semiconductor solution fails to meet the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, and does not gain acceptance, we may not maintain or may lose market share and our competitive position, and operating results will be adversely affected.. We may experience difficulties demonstrating the value to customers of newer solutions if they believe existing solutions are adequate to meet end customer expectations. If we are unable to sell new generations of our product, our business would be harmed.. As we develop and introduce new solutions, we face the risk that customers may not value or be willing to bear the cost of incorporating these newer solutions into their product offerings, particularly if they believe their customers are satisfied with those current offerings. Regardless of the improved features or superior performance of the newer solutions, customers may be unwilling to adopt our new solutions due to design or pricing constraints. Because of the extensive time and resources that we invest in developing new solutions, if we are unable to sell customers new generations of our solutions, our revenue could decline and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be negatively affected.. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, including our design and technical personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key personnel, which could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our senior executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business.. 26. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and in other locations where we maintain offices, is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing semiconductor solutions. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources if we respond to them. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We may be unable to make the substantial investments that are required to remain competitive in our business.. The semiconductor industry requires substantial and continuous investment in research and development in order to bring to market new and enhanced solutions. Our research and development expenses were $44.8 million, $36.6 million and $25.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect to increase our research and development expenditures compared to prior periods as part of our strategy to increase demand for our solutions in our current markets and to expand into additional markets. We are a smaller company with limited resources, and we may not have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies, which are the focus of our research and development expenditures, will become commercially successful or generate any revenue.. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose or fail to gain market share, which could negatively impact our operating results and our business.. The global semiconductor market in general, and the data center and enterprise communications markets in particular, is highly competitive. We compete in our target markets on the basis of a number of competitive factors. We expect competition to increase and intensify as additional semiconductor companies enter our target markets, and as internal silicon design resources of large OEMs grow. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business, revenue and results of operations. Our competitors range from large, international companies offering a wide range of semiconductor products to smaller companies specializing in narrow market verticals. In the markets we serve, our primary competitors are Broadcom and Marvell. We expect competition in our current markets to increase in the future as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings and as new competitors enter these markets. In addition, our future growth will depend in part on our ability to successfully enter and compete in new markets, such as the access market. Some of these markets will likely be served by only a few large, multinational OEMs with substantial negotiating and buying power relative to us and, in some instances, with internally developed silicon solutions that can be competitive to our products.. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on factors that are outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Many of our competitors are substantially larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are and have significantly better brand recognition and broader product offerings, which may enable them to better withstand adverse economic or market conditions in the future and reduce their pricing so as to compete against us. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  our ability to define, design and regularly introduce new products that anticipate the functionality and integration needs of our customers' next-generation products and applications;. •  our ability to build strong and long-lasting relationships with our customers and other industry participants;. •  our ability to capitalize on, and prevent losses due to, vertical integration by significant customers, including Intel and Cisco;. •  our solutions' performance and cost-effectiveness relative to those of competing products;. 27. •  the effectiveness and success of our customers' products utilizing our solutions within their competitive end markets;. •  our research and development capabilities to provide innovative solutions and maintain our product roadmap;. •  the strength of our sales and marketing efforts, and our brand awareness and reputation;. •  our ability to deliver products in volume on a timely basis at competitive prices;. •  our ability to build and expand international operations in a cost-effective manner;. •  our ability to protect our intellectual property and obtain intellectual property rights from third parties that may be necessary to meet the evolving demands of the market;. •  our ability to promote and support our customers' incorporation of our solutions into their products;. •  our ability to continue to develop products at each new technology node; and. •  our ability to retain high-level talent, including our management team and engineers.. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties or may acquire companies that provide similar products to ours. As a result, new competitors or alliances may emerge that could capture significant market share. Any of these factors, alone or in combination with others, could harm our business and result in a loss of market share and an increase in pricing pressure. In addition, a number of our competitors are able to sell their solutions through multiple channels, including through distributors and third-party sales organizations, while we rely primarily on direct sales, which may provide our competitors with a strategic advantage in sales of their solutions and could harm our prospects and business.. We depend on third parties for our wafer, assembly and testing operations, which exposes us to certain risks that may harm our business.. We operate an outsourced manufacturing business model. As a result, we rely on third parties for all of our manufacturing operations, including wafer fabrication, assembly and testing. Although we use multiple third-party supplier sources, we depend on these third parties to supply us with material of a requested quantity in a timely manner that meets our standards for yield, cost and manufacturing quality. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with any of our manufacturing suppliers. These third-party manufacturers often serve customers that are larger than us or require a greater portion of their services, which may decrease our relative importance and negotiating leverage with these third parties.. If market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, for most of our semiconductor wafer production, and any disruption in their supply of wafers or any increases in their wafer or materials prices could adversely affect our gross margins and our ability to meet customer demands in a timely manner, or at all, and lead to reduced revenue. Moreover, wafers constitute a large portion of our product cost. If we are unable to purchase wafers at favorable prices, our gross margins would be adversely affected.. To ensure continued wafer supply, we may be required to establish alternative wafer supply sources, which could require significant expenditures and limit our negotiating leverage. We currently rely on TSMC as our primary foundry; and only a few foundry vendors have the capability to manufacture our most advanced solutions. If we engage alternative supply sources, we may encounter start-up difficulties and incur additional costs. In addition, shipments could be significantly delayed while these sources are qualified for volume production.. Certain of our manufacturing facilities are located outside of the United States, where we are subject to increased risk of political and economic instability, difficulties in managing operations, difficulties in enforcing contracts and our intellectual property, and employment and labor difficulties. Any of these factors could result in manufacturing and supply problems, and delays in our ability to provide our solutions to our customers on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience manufacturing problems at a particular location, we may be required to transfer manufacturing to a new location or supplier. Converting or transferring manufacturing from a primary location or. 28. supplier to a backup facility could be expensive and could take several quarters or more. During such a transition, we would be required to meet customer demand from our then-existing inventory, as well as any partially finished goods that could be modified to the required product specifications. We do not seek to maintain sufficient inventory to address a lengthy transition period because we believe it is uneconomical to keep more than minimal inventory on hand and because semiconductors are subject to a rapid obsolescence timeline. As a result, we may not be able to meet customer needs during such a transition, which could damage our customer relationships.. If one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, or if we encounter any problems with our manufacturing supply chain, our ability to ship our solutions to our customers on time and in the quantity required would be adversely affected, which in turn could cause an unanticipated decline in our sales and loss of customers.. If the foundries that we employ do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed.. We depend on satisfactory foundry manufacturing capacity, wafer prices and production yields, as well as timely wafer delivery to meet customer demand and maintain gross margins. The fabrication of our products is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our foundry vendors may experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields from time to time. Further, any new foundry vendors we employ may present additional and unexpected manufacturing challenges that could require significant management time and focus. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by the foundries that we employ could result in lower than anticipated production yields or unacceptable performance of our devices. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor production yields from the foundries that we employ, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our solutions could significantly harm our customer relationships and financial results, and give rise to financial or other damages to our customers. Any product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend.. We rely on our relationships with industry and technology leaders to enhance our product offerings and our inability to continue to develop or maintain such relationships in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive.. We develop many of our semiconductor products for applications in systems that are driven by industry and technology leaders in the communications and computing markets. We work with IC suppliers, OEMs, system manufacturers and standards bodies, such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics, or IEEE, and the NBASE-T Alliance, to define industry conventions and standards within our target markets. For example, AQrate has been established as the technology leader through its adoption by the IEEE as the baseline for the IEEE 802.3bz standard for 2.5GBASE-T and 5GBASE-T products. We believe that these relationships enhance our ability to achieve market acceptance and widespread adoption of our products. If we are unable to continue to develop or maintain these relationships, our semiconductor solutions could become less desirable to our customers, our sales could suffer and our competitive position could be harmed.. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry experienced a significant downturn during the most recent global recession. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns in the semiconductor industry could harm our business and operating results. Furthermore, any significant upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our products and we can provide no assurance that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future.. Deterioration of the financial conditions of our customers could adversely affect our operating results.. 29. The deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. We regularly review the collectability and creditworthiness of our customers to determine an appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts. Based on our review of our customers, substantially all of which are very large IC Suppliers, OEMs, we currently have no reserve for doubtful accounts. If our doubtful accounts, however, were to exceed our current or future allowance for doubtful accounts, our operating results would be adversely affected.. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous, which could adversely affect our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or judgments.. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make relate to revenue recognition, inventories, stock-based compensation and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience, input from outside experts and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates, judgments or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates, judgments or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected.. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and could cause us to change our business practices.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements to conform to GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting rules and regulations. In the past few years, new accounting standards have been issued which are expected substantially change the accounting for most companies including those related to revenue recognition and leasing. Changes in accounting rules can have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our financial results or the way we conduct our business.. Future loan agreements contain certain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility.. We had in the past entered into loan agreements and may enter into new loan agreements which could contain certain restrictive covenants that either limit our ability to, or require a mandatory prepayment in the event that, we incur additional indebtedness or liens, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, acquire other companies, make certain investments, pay dividends, transfer or dispose of assets, amend certain material agreements or enter into various specified transactions. Our obligations under these loan agreements are secured by all of our property, with limited exceptions.  Furthermore, the restrictive terms may limit our operating flexibility which may in turn adversely impact our operating results.. We may not be able to accurately predict our future capital needs, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to fund our operations.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, investors may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to incur interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to scale back our operations or limit our production activities, and we may not be able to expand our business, develop or enhance our solutions, take. 30. advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could negatively impact our revenue and the competitiveness of our products.. We may make acquisitions in the future that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our business.. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. Our ability to make acquisitions and successfully integrate personnel, technologies or operations of any acquired business is unproven. If we complete acquisitions, we may not achieve the combined revenue, cost synergies or other benefits from the acquisition that we anticipate, strengthen our competitive position or achieve our other goals in a timely manner, or at all, and these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by our customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions we make lead to difficulties in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from their primary responsibilities, subject us to additional liabilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Acquisitions may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business.. A portion of our operations is located outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional risks, including increased complexity and costs of managing international operations and geopolitical instability.. We outsource the manufacturing of all of our products to third parties that are primarily located in Asia. In addition, we have research and development design centers in Canada, India, the Netherlands and Russia, and we expect to continue to conduct business with companies that are located outside the United States, particularly in Eastern Europe and Asia. As a result of our international focus, we face numerous challenges and risks, including:. •  complexity and costs of managing international operations, including manufacture, assembly and testing of our products;. •  geopolitical and economic instability and military conflicts;. •  limited protection of our intellectual property and other assets;. •  compliance with local laws and regulations and unanticipated changes in local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations;. •  trade and foreign exchange restrictions and higher tariffs;. •  timing and availability of import and export licenses and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, including export classification requirements;. •  foreign currency fluctuations and exchange losses relating to our international operating activities;. •  restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or foreign governments on our ability to do business with certain companies or in certain countries as a result of international political conflicts and the complexity of complying with those restrictions;. •  transportation delays and other consequences of limited local infrastructure, and disruptions, such as large scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers;. •  difficulties in staffing international operations;. •  local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices;. •  differing employment practices and labor relations;. •  heightened risk of terrorist acts;. •  regional health issues, travel restrictions and natural disasters; and. •  work stoppages.. 31. Fluctuations in exchange rates between and among the currencies of the countries in which we do business could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries in which our customers operate could impair the ability of our customers to cost-effectively purchase or integrate our solutions into their product offerings, which may materially affect the demand for our solutions and cause these customers to reduce their orders, which in turn would adversely affect our revenue and business. If we increase operations in other currencies in the future, we may experience foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar. Certain of our employees are located in Canada, India, the Netherlands, Russia and Taiwan. Accordingly, a portion of our payroll as well as certain other operating expenses are paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our results of operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another may directly impact period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict our results of operations.. Failure to comply with the laws associated with our activities outside of the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with anti-corruption laws and anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.S. Travel Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010, that prohibit improper payments or offers of payment to foreign governments and political parties by us for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other applicable laws and regulations. We are in the early stages of implementing our FCPA compliance program and cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of these laws could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export and economic sanctions laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and increase our costs.. Our products and technology are subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. These regulations may limit the export of our products and technology, and provision of our services outside of the United States, or may require export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations, including annual or semi-annual reporting and the filing of an encryption registration. Export control and economic sanctions laws may also include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain of our products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. In addition, various countries regulate the importation of certain products, through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. The exportation, reexportation, and importation of our products and technology and the provision of services, including by our partners, must comply with these laws or else we may be adversely affected, through reputational harm, government investigations, penalties, and a denial or curtailment of our ability to export our products and technology or provide services. Complying with export control and sanctions laws may be time consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Although we take precautions to prevent our products and technology from being provided in violation of such laws, our products and technology may have previously been, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. sanctions or export control laws, it could result in substantial fines and penalties for us and for the individuals working for us. Changes in export or import laws or corresponding sanctions, may adversely impact our operations, delay the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products and technology to certain countries, regions,. 32. governments, persons or entities altogether, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New or future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially adversely affect our company.. New or future changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, or the interpretation thereof, in addition to tax regulations enacted but not in effect, tax policy initiatives and reforms under consideration in the United States or related to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's, or OECD, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Project, the European Commission's state aid investigations, and other initiatives could have an adverse effect on the taxation of international businesses. Furthermore, countries where we are subject to taxes, including the United States, are independently evaluating their tax policy and we may see significant changes in legislation and regulations concerning taxation. Certain countries have already enacted legislation, including those related to BEPS Project, which could affect international businesses, and other countries have become more aggressive in their approach to audits and enforcement of their applicable tax laws. We are unable to predict what future tax reform may be proposed or enacted or what effect such changes would have on our business, but any such changes, to the extent they are brought into tax legislation, regulations, policies, or practices, could increase our effective tax rates in the countries where we have operations and have an adverse effect on our overall tax rate, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance, all of which could impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act among other changes, reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, implements a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of previously untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of certain foreign subsidiaries, and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. Many of the provisions of the Act are highly complex and may be subject to further interpretive guidance from the Internal Revenue Service or others. The final impact of the Act may differ significantly from these estimates, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as a result of additional information, additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We continue to examine the impact of certain provisions of the Act that will become applicable in 2018 related to base erosion anti-abuse tax, global intangible low-taxed income, and other provisions that could adversely affect our effective tax rate in the future.. We have recorded significant valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, and the recording and release of such allowances may have a material impact on our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our stock price.. The need for a valuation allowance requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. In making such assessment, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. As such, we determined that full valuation allowance is required on our deferred tax assets.. In the future, we may release valuation allowance and recognize deferred tax assets depending on achieving profitability. We continue to monitor the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax asset. There can be no assurance that we will generate profits in future periods enabling it to fully realize its deferred tax. The timing of the reversal of such valuation allowance is subject to objective and subjective factors that cannot be readily predicted in advance. The reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance may have a material impact on our financial results, which may lead to fluctuation in the value of our stock.. Tax regulatory authorities may disagree with our positions and conclusions regarding certain tax positions resulting in unanticipated costs or non-realization of expected benefits.. A tax authority may disagree with tax positions that we have taken. For example, the Internal Revenue Service or another tax authority could challenge our allocation of income by tax jurisdiction and the amounts paid between our affiliated companies pursuant to our intercompany arrangements and transfer pricing policies, including amounts paid with respect to our intellectual property in connection with our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangement and legal structure. A tax authority may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interest and penalties are payable by us, in which case, we expect that we might contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could materially and adversely affect our anticipated effective tax rate or operating income, where applicable.. 33. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. Our corporate headquarters and our foundry vendors are located in areas that are in active earthquake zones. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane or other catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or disease outbreak, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, breaches of data security, or loss of critical data, any of which could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations.. A breach of our security systems may damage our reputation and adversely affect our business.. Our security systems are designed to protect our customers', suppliers' and employees' confidential information, as well as maintain the physical security of our facilities. We also rely on a number of third-party cloud-based service providers of corporate infrastructure services relating to, among other things, human resources, electronic communication services and some finance functions, and we are, of necessity, dependent on the security systems of these providers. Any security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to the systems of our cloud-based service providers or the existence of computer viruses in their data or software could expose us to a risk of information loss and misappropriation of confidential information. Accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to our information systems or facilities, or the existence of computer viruses in our data or software, could expose us to a risk of information loss and misappropriation of proprietary and confidential information. Any theft or misuse of this information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, damage to our reputation, difficulty in marketing our products, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for liabilities and damages related to the theft or misuse of this information, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, our reputation and our relationships with our customers and suppliers. Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Product Liability. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to compete effectively or defend ourselves from litigation, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual protections, to protect our technologies and proprietary know-how, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to prevent such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. As of December 31, 2017, we had 75 issued patents, expiring generally between 2024 and 2036, 28 pending and provisional patent applications in the United States and 12 issued international patents. Even if the pending patent applications are granted, the rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. For example, these patents could be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. Further, we are a participant in the IEEE standard process and, as a result, have signed letters of assurance with the IEEE stipulating that we will agree to license to other members of the IEEE, under reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, patents containing essential claims that are necessary for the implementation of the IEEE standards for 10GBASE-T as well as 2.5GBASE-T and 5GBASE-T. Essential claims include any claim the practice of which was necessary to implement a portion of the IEEE standard when, at the time of IEEE's approval, there was no commercially and technically feasible non-infringing alternative implementation method. To date, we do not license any of our patents to other members of the IEEE; however, we may decide, or otherwise be required pursuant to such letters of assurance, to enter into such licensing agreements with respect to a significant number of our patents relating to both our 10GBASE-T PHYs and our AQrate technology in the future. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Our foreign patent protection is generally not as comprehensive as our U.S. patent protection and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Many U.S.-based companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in foreign countries, including countries where we sell products. Even if foreign patents are. 34. granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If such an impermissible use of our intellectual property or trade secrets were to occur, our ability to sell our solutions at competitive prices may be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and evolving. We cannot assure you that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies or solutions, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others.. Unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. It is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur without our knowledge. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology in licensing arrangements or in cross-licensing negotiations.. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation in order to try to protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and management, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, any enforcement of our patents or other intellectual property may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed.. We have granted the right to manufacture our custom products to our customers upon the occurrence of certain events. If our customers exercise such rights, our business and financial results would suffer.. We have granted certain of our customers, including Intel and Cisco, a worldwide, nonexclusive, nontransferable, perpetual, irrevocable right and license to manufacture or have manufactured our products that have been customized for them. These rights are exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events, including for example, if we fail to consistently supply products in quantities ordered, we discontinue manufacture of such products or we experience an insolvency event. If these rights are triggered, and our customers choose to exercise these rights, our business and financial results would suffer.. Third parties' assertions of infringement of their intellectual property rights could result in our having to incur significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We expect that in the future, particularly as a public company with an increased profile and visibility, we may receive communications from others alleging our infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. •  stop selling solutions or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property;. •  lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others;. •  incur significant legal expenses;. •  pay substantial damages to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. •  redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or. 35. •  attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights from any litigation we face could harm our business and our ability to compete.. We may face claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend or settle and which could result in the loss of significant rights and harm our relationships with our customers and distributors.. The semiconductor industry, the industry in which we operate, is characterized by companies that hold patents and other intellectual property rights and vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business.. Claims that our products, processes or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly to defend or settle and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel.. Infringement claims also could harm our relationships with our customers or distributors and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we will prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to:. •  cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology;. •  pay substantial damages for infringement by us or our customers;. •  expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products, processes or technology, which may not be successful;. •  license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all;. •  cross-license our technology to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; or. •  pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing technology sold to them with non-infringing technology, if available.. Any of the foregoing results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could affect our customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us.. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the target of litigation. Our agreements with customers and other third parties generally include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our solutions included in their products. Large indemnity payments or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. From time to time, customers require us to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for breach of confidentiality or failure to implement adequate security measures with respect to their intellectual property and trade secrets. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any litigation against our customers could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations under some of our agreements, which could result in substantial expense to us.. 36. In addition, other customers or end customers with whom we do not have formal agreements requiring us to indemnify them may ask us to indemnify them if a claim is made as a condition to awarding future design wins to us. Because most of our customers are larger than we are and have greater resources than we do, they may be more likely to be the target of an infringement claim by third parties than we would be, which could increase our chances of becoming involved in a future lawsuit. If any such claims were to succeed, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers that could increase our expenses, disrupt our ability to sell our solutions and reduce our revenue. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other current and prospective customers, reduce demand for our solutions, and harm our business and results of operations. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause the sale of our products to decrease.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained.. Prior to the closing of our initial public offering, or IPO, in November 2017, no public market for our common stock existed. We cannot assure you that an active market in our common stock will continue to develop or that it will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the liquidity of any trading market for shares of our common stock, your ability to sell shares of our common stock when desired, or the prices that may be obtained for shares of our common stock.. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline.. The trading price and volume of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to, among other things, changes in customer demand, product life cycles, pricing, ordering patterns and unforeseen operating costs;. •  the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. •  failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  announcements by our significant customers of changes to their product offerings, business plans or strategies;. •  changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in the semiconductor industry;. •  timing and seasonality of the end-market demand;. •  cyclical fluctuations in the semiconductor market;. •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole;. •  actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws, or regulations applicable to our business;. •  any major change in our management;. 37. •  lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.. In addition, the market for technology stocks and the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Substantial future sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. Subject to the restrictions under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, approximately 25.6 million shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale beginning May 2, 2018 upon the expiration of market stand-off provisions or lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO. The market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them.. In addition, subject to the lock-up agreements described above, the holders of up to an aggregate of approximately 21.9 million shares of our common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. We also registered shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee equity incentive plans which shares will be able to be sold freely in the public market upon issuance, subject to existing market stand-off provisions or lock-up agreements.. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. Our directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned more than 50% of our outstanding stock as of December 31, 2017. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders will be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or the approval of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our common stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely changes their recommendation regarding our stock or changes their recommendation about our competitors' stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We may invest or spend the proceeds from our IPO in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a return.. Our management will have considerable discretion in the application of the net proceeds, and our stockholders will not have the opportunity, as part of their investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds are being used. 38. appropriately. The net proceeds may be used for corporate purposes that do not increase the value of our business, which could cause our stock price to decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation, and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is prohibited by the terms of our current debt financing arrangements. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, in our stock price, which may never occur.. We might not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credit carryforwards.. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of approximately $176.6 million and $102.4 million, respectively, and U.S. federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $6.9 million and $7.9 million, respectively. The U.S. federal NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2025 and the state NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2018. The U.S. federal research and development tax credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2026 and the state research and development tax credit carryforwards carry forward indefinitely. These net operating loss and U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and corresponding provisions of California state law, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" which is generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We completed Section 382 analysis and determined ownership changes occurred in July 2005, November 2009 and August 2017, which resulted in reductions to the U.S. federal and California net operating losses of $34.9 million and $24.1 million, respectively, and U.S. federal research and development credits by $1.8 million. In addition, we may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control. If we determine that an ownership change has occurred and our ability to use our historical net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is materially limited, it would harm our future operating results by effectively increasing our future tax obligations.. Our actual operating results may not meet our guidance and investor expectations, which would likely cause our stock price to decline.. From time to time, we may release guidance in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance, which will include forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The principal reason that we expect to release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. With or without our guidance, analysts and other investors may publish expectations regarding our business, financial performance and results of operations. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. If our actual performance does not meet or exceed our guidance or investor expectations, the trading price of our common stock is likely to decline.. We may not be able to effectively or efficiently manage or transition to a public company.. We completed our IPO in November 2017 and anticipate to incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur before as a private company. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to, and we may not effectively or efficiently manage, our transition into a public company. We intend to hire additional accounting and finance personnel with system implementation experience and. 39. expertise regarding compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may be unable to locate and hire qualified professionals with requisite technical and public company experience when and as needed. In addition, new employees will require time and training to learn our business and operating processes and procedures. If we are unable to recruit and retain additional finance personnel or if our finance and accounting team is unable for any reason to respond adequately to the increased demands that will result from being a public company, the quality and timeliness of our financial reporting may suffer, which could result in the identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls. Any consequences resulting from inaccuracies or delays in our reported financial statements could cause our stock price to decline and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we fail to strengthen our financial reporting systems, infrastructure and internal control over financial reporting to meet the demands that will be placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results timely and accurately and prevent fraud. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404.. We implemented an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. This required significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business and the attention of many employees who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the improvements of our new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to develop and launch solutions, fulfill contractual obligations, file reports with the SEC in a timely manner, otherwise operate our business or otherwise impact our controls environment. Any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. As a public company, we will become subject to additional regulatory compliance requirements, including Section 404, and if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Rules and regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have increased our legal and finance compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, Section 404 requires that our management report on, and our independent auditors attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. However, our auditors will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 compliance may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. We may not be able to successfully complete the procedures and certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 by the time we will be required to do so. Implementing these changes may take a significant amount of time and may require specific compliance training of our personnel. In the future, we may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. If our auditors or we discover a material weakness or significant deficiency, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our consolidated financial statements and harm our stock price. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud would harm our business. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. If we fail to successfully complete the procedures and certification and attestation requirements of Section 404, or if in the future our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our shares of common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management or, when applicable, our auditors will conclude that our internal controls are effective in future periods. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation.. 40. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. •  authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our common stock;. •  require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. •  specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of our board of directors, or our Chief Executive Officer;. •  establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. •  establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. •  prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;. •  provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. •  provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled by a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; and. •  require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our management could cause our stock price to decline.. Our charter documents designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain what they believe to be a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or (4) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in. 41. other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and board of directors."
