[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks, including the risks listed below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the value of our common stock could decline. The below listed risk factors should not be considered an all inclusive list. New risk factors emerge periodically and we cannot guarantee that the factors described below list all risks that may become material to us at any later time. Some of the risk factors discussed below may have different impacts on our Structured and Agency Businesses.. Risks Related to Our Business. An economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, or declining real estate values could harm our operations.. We believe the risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic downturn if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values would likely limit our new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Declining real estate values also significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to. 14. Table of Contents. originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. Prolonged disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock.. Commercial real estate is particularly adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn and liquidity crisis, which last occurred in 2007 through 2010. These circumstances materially impact liquidity in the financial markets and result in the scarcity of certain types of financing, and, in certain cases, make certain financing terms less attractive. If economic or market conditions deteriorate, and these adverse conditions return, lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent, further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our borrowers to repay our loans as they may experience difficulties in selling assets, increased costs of financing or obtaining financing at all. These events may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us.. Increases in loan loss reserves and other impairments are likely if economic conditions deteriorate.. A decline in economic conditions could negatively impact the credit quality of our loan and investment portfolio and could cause us to experience increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and other asset impairment charges.. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment.. We perform an evaluation of our loans on a quarterly basis to determine whether an impairment charge is necessary and adequate to absorb probable losses. The valuation process for our loan and investment portfolio requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a period in which the available commercial real estate credit is limited and commercial real estate transactions have decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at loan maturity, potential for a refinancing market coming back to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted.. Loan repayments are less likely in a volatile market environment.. In a market in which liquidity is essential to our business, particularly our Structured Business, loan repayments have been a significant source of liquidity for us. If borrowers are unable to refinance loans at maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, in the event the commercial real estate finance market deteriorates, borrowers that are performing on their loans will most likely extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through repayments.. 15. Table of Contents. We may not be able to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, for additional liquidity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Additional liquidity, future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to access additional debt and equity capital depends on various conditions in these markets, which are beyond our control. If we are able to complete future equity offerings, they could be dilutive to our existing stockholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results.. We may be unable to invest excess equity capital on acceptable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our operating results.. We may not be able to identify investments that meet our investment criteria and we may not be successful in closing the investments that we identify. In addition, the investments that we acquire with our equity capital may not produce a return on capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify attractive opportunities to invest our equity capital, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our stock.. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our stock depends on various market conditions which change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our stock are the following:. <U+0095> The general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;    <U+0095> Our financial performance; and    <U+0095> General stock and bond market conditions.. The market value of our stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and dividends. Consequently, our stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our book value per share of stock. If our future earnings or dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our stock will diminish.. A declining portfolio could adversely affect the returns from our investments.. Conditions in the capital markets could lead to a reduction in our loan and investment portfolio. If we do not have the opportunity to originate quality investments to replace the reductions in our portfolio, this reduction will likely result in reduced returns from our investments.. Rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on a borrower's ability to make interest payments.. A significant portion of our loans and borrowings in our Structured Business are variable-rate instruments based on LIBOR. However, a portion of our loan portfolio is fixed-rate or is subject to interest rate floors that limit the impact of a decrease in interest rates. In addition, certain of our borrowings are also fixed rate or may be subject to interest rate swaps that hedge our exposure to interest rate risk on fixed rate loans financed with variable rate debt. As a result, the impact of a change in interest rates may be different on our interest income than it is on our interest expense. In the event of a significant rising interest rate environment and/or economic downturn, defaults could increase and result in credit losses to us, which could adversely affect our liquidity and operating. 16. Table of Contents. results. Further, such delinquencies or defaults could have an adverse effect on the spreads between interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.. We depend on key personnel with long standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully.. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of key personnel. In particular, the mortgage lending experience of our chief executive officer and executive vice president of structured finance, and the extent and nature of relationships they have developed with developers and owners of multifamily and commercial properties and other financial institutions, are critical to our success. We cannot assure their continued employment as our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team could harm our business and our prospects.. The real estate investment business is highly competitive. Our success depends on our ability to compete with other providers of capital for real estate investments.. Our business is highly competitive. Competition may cause us to accept economic or structural features in our investments, particularly in our Structured Business, that we would not have otherwise accepted and it may cause us to search for investments in markets outside of our traditional product expertise. We compete for attractive investments with traditional lending sources, such as insurance companies and banks, as well as other REITs, specialty finance companies and private equity vehicles with similar investment objectives, which may make it more difficult for us to consummate our target investments. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do, which provides them with greater operating flexibility and a competitive advantage relative to us.. We may not achieve our targeted rate of return on our investments.. We originate or acquire investments based on our estimates or projections of overall rates of return on such investments, which in turn are based upon, among other considerations, assumptions regarding the performance of assets, the amount and terms of available financing to obtain desired leverage and the manner and timing of dispositions, including possible asset recovery and remediation strategies, all of which are subject to significant uncertainty. In addition, events or conditions that we have not anticipated may occur and may have a significant effect on the actual rate of return received on an investment. As we acquire or originate investments, whether as new additions or as replacements for maturing investments, there can be no assurance that we will be able to produce rates of return comparable to returns on our previous or existing investments.. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business.. Before making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity's management and other factors we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In performing our due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence process will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful.. We invest in junior participation loans which may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us.. In our Structured Business, we invest in junior participation loans which are mortgage loans typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single commercial property or group of related properties. 17. Table of Contents. and (ii) subordinated to a senior note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for the junior participation loan after payment is made to the senior note holder. Since each transaction is privately negotiated, junior participation loans can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of junior participation loans to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each junior participation investment. A junior participation may not be liquid and, consequently, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with a subordinate position in any investment we make could subject us to increased risk of losses.. We invest in mezzanine loans which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans with a first priority lien on the underlying real estate.. In our Structured Business, we invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal.. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing.. In our Structured Business, we invest in preferred equity investments, which involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to other loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the partnership in which we have an interest, and not the property underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment.. We invest in multifamily and commercial real estate loans, which may involve a greater risk of loss than single family real estate loans.. Our investments include multifamily and commercial real estate loans that involve a higher degree of risk than single family residential lending because of a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, dependency for repayment on successful operation of the mortgaged property and tenant businesses operating therein, and loan terms that include amortization schedules longer than the stated maturity and provide for balloon payments at stated maturity rather than periodic principal payments. In addition, the value of commercial real estate can be affected significantly by the supply and demand in the market for that type of property.. Volatility of values of multifamily and commercial properties may adversely affect our loans and investments.. Multifamily and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events such as natural disasters, including hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war and/or terrorism and others that may cause unanticipated and uninsured performance declines and/or. 18. Table of Contents. losses to us or the owners and operators of the real estate securing our investment; national, regional and local economic conditions, such as what we have experienced in recent years (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, construction cost, age and design; demographic factors; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event a property's net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty repaying our loan, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses.. Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they run out.. Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans in our Structured Business portfolio, we often require borrowers to post reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows are projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally require the borrower to replenish reserves if they become depleted due to underperformance or if the borrower wants to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real estate loan investments would decrease in an economic downturn, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. In the future, some borrowers may continue to have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flows.. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments.. Our ability to manage our structured portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we may acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under inter-creditor or servicing agreements; acquire only a participation in an underlying investment; co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or rely on independent third party management or strategic partners with respect to the management of an asset. Therefore, we may not be able to exercise control over the loan or investment. Such financial assets may involve risks not present in investments where senior creditors, servicers or third party controlling investors are not involved. Our rights to control the process following a borrower default may be subject to the rights of senior creditors or servicers whose interests may not be aligned with ours. A third party partner may have financial difficulties resulting in a negative impact on such assets and may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with ours. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third party partners.. Real estate property may fail to perform as expected.. We may obtain real estate properties through foreclosure proceedings or investment. Such properties may not perform as expected and may subject us to unknown liabilities relating to such properties for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination or claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. In addition, future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring an obtained property up to standards established for its intended market position may be underestimated.. 19. Table of Contents. The adverse resolution of a lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The adverse resolution of litigation for which we have been named as a defendant could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 16 - Commitments and Contingencies for information on our current litigation.. The impact of any future terrorist attacks and the availability of terrorism insurance expose us to certain risks.. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, and the consequences of any military or other response by the U.S. and its allies may have an adverse impact on the U.S. financial markets and the economy in general. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that any such future events would have on the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, the economy or our business. Any future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments. Some of our loans and investments will be more susceptible to such adverse effects than others. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future terrorist attacks and these losses may adversely impact our results of operations.. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or the TRIA, and other current legislation, requires insurers to make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies in order to receive federal compensation under TRIA for insured losses. However, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to make investments. If the properties that we invest in are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our investment.. Failure to maintain an exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations.. We believe that we conduct, and we intend to conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring \"mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate\" are currently exempted from regulation thereunder. The staff of the SEC has provided guidance on the availability of this exemption. Specifically, the staff's position generally requires a company to maintain at least 55% of its assets directly in \"qualifying real estate interests.\" To constitute as a qualifying real estate interest under this 55% test, an interest in real estate must meet various criteria. Loans that are secured by equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly own the underlying real property, rather than a mortgage on the underlying property itself, and ownership of equity interests in real property owners may not qualify for purposes of the 55% test depending on the type of entity. Mortgage-related securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may also not qualify for purposes of the 55% test. Therefore, our ownership of these types of loans and equity interests may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including the guidance of the Division of Investment Management of the SEC regarding this exemption, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. To the extent that we do not comply with the 55% test, another exemption or exclusion from registration as an investment company under that Act or other interpretations under the Investment Company Act, or if the SEC no longer permits our exemption, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption or other exclusion from registration as an investment company we could, among other. 20. Table of Contents. things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under that Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters.. One of our subsidiaries is required to register under the Investment Advisors Act, and is subject to regulation under that Act.. One of our subsidiaries is subject to the extensive regulation prescribed by the Investment Advisers Act. The SEC oversees activities as a registered investment adviser under this regulatory regime. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Investment Advisers Act, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or investing activities or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. The regulations under the Investment Advisers Act are designed primarily to protect investors and other clients, and are not designed to protect holders of our publicly traded stock. Even if a sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its personnel involves a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to such sanction could harm our reputation and our relationship with our investors and impede our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, compliance with the Investment Advisors Act may require us to incur additional costs, and these costs may be material.. The impact of any future laws, as well as amendments to current laws, may place restrictions on our business.. Future legislation could impose additional financial obligations or restrictions with respect to our business. The past economic environment has placed an increased level of scrutiny on the financial services sector, which led to the signing of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us and, more generally, the financial services and mortgage industries. It is difficult to predict the exact nature of any future legislation and the extent to which such legislation, if any, will impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The effects of government regulation could negatively impact the market value of loans related to development projects.. Loans related to development projects bear additional risk in that government regulation could impact the value of the project by limiting the development of the property. If the proper approvals for the completion of the project are not granted, the value of the collateral may be adversely affected which may negatively impact the value of the loan.. Risks Related to Our Financing and Hedging Activities. We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally finance our Structured Business loans and investments through a variety of means, including credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, junior subordinated notes, CLOs and other structured financings. We generally finance our Agency Business loan originations, prior to sale to, or securitization by, an agency, through credit facilities provided by commercial banks. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner that are. 21. Table of Contents. beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads, which we have seen over the past several years. If conditions deteriorate, we cannot assure that these sources are feasible as a means of financing as there can be no assurance that any existing agreements will be renewed or extended at expiration. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term and short-term financing as credit and repurchase facilities may not accommodate our needs. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities.. Credit facilities may contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations.. Credit facilities may contain various financial covenants and restrictions, including minimum net worth, liquidity and debt-to-equity ratios. Other restrictive covenants contained in credit facility agreements may include covenants that prohibit affecting a change in control, disposing of or encumbering assets being financed, maximum debt balance requirements, and restrictions from making material amendments to underwriting guidelines without lender approval. While we actively manage our loan and investment portfolio, a weak economic environment will make maintaining compliance with future credit facilities' covenants more difficult. If we are not in compliance with any of these covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive or amend such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may not be able to obtain the level of leverage necessary to optimize our return on investment.. In our Structured Business, our return on investment depends, in part, upon our ability to grow our portfolio of invested assets through the use of leverage at a cost of debt that is lower than the yield earned on our investments. We typically obtain leverage through the issuance of CLOs, credit agreements and other borrowings. Our future ability to obtain the necessary leverage on beneficial terms ultimately depends upon the quality of the portfolio assets that collateralize our indebtedness. Our failure to obtain and/or maintain leverage at desired levels or on attractive terms would have a material adverse effect on the performance of our Structured Business. Moreover, we may be dependent upon a few lenders to provide financing under credit agreements for our origination or acquisition of loans and investments and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed or extended at expiration. Our ability to obtain financing through CLOs is subject to conditions in the debt capital markets which are impacted by factors beyond our control that may at times be adverse and reduce the level of investor demand for such securities.. The debt facilities that we may use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral.. We may use credit facilities and repurchase agreements to finance investments in the future. If the market value of the loans or investments pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to pay down such future debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support these potential credit facilities would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lenders can accelerate the indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Further, lenders may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.. 22. Table of Contents. Our use of leverage may create a mismatch with the duration and index of the investments that we are financing.. We attempt to structure our leverage, particularly in our Structured Business, such that we minimize the difference between the term of our investments and the term of the leverage we use to finance the investment. In the event our leverage is for a shorter term than the financed investment, we may not be able to extend or find appropriate replacement leverage and that would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our returns. In the event our leverage is for a longer term than the financed investment, we may not be able to repay such leverage or replace the financed investment with an optimal substitute or at all, which will negatively impact our desired leveraged returns.. We attempt to structure our leverage such that we minimize the difference between the index of our investments and the index of our leverage-financing floating rate investments with floating rate leverage and fixed rate investments with fixed rate leverage. If such a product is not available to us from our lenders on reasonable terms, we may use hedging instruments to effectively create such a match. For example, in the case of fixed rate investments, we may finance such an investment with floating rate leverage, but effectively convert all or a portion of the leverage to fixed rate using hedging strategies. Our attempts to mitigate such risk are subject to factors outside of our control, such as the availability to us of favorable financing and hedging options, which is subject to a variety of factors, of which duration and term matching are only two such factors.. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolio, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution.. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which may compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally leverage our portfolio through the use of securitizations, including the issuance of CLOs, bank credit facilities, and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on the types of assets being financed, availability of funds, ability to obtain credit facilities, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for our borrowings. In addition, we may acquire real estate property subject to debt obligations. The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we acquire.. Our debt service payments reduce the net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets.. We may guarantee some of our leverage and contingent obligations.. We may guarantee the performance of some of our obligations in the future, including but not limited to any repurchase agreements, derivative agreements, and unsecured indebtedness. Non-performance on such obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may invest/commit to under such obligations and there is no assurance that we will have sufficient capital to cover any such losses.. We may not be able to acquire suitable investments for a CLO issuance, or we may not be able to issue CLOs on attractive terms, or at all, which may require us to utilize more costly financing for our investments.. We have financed, and, if the opportunities exist in the future, we may continue to finance certain of our investments in our Structured Business through the issuance of CLOs. During the period we are. 23. Table of Contents. acquiring investments for eventual long-term financing through CLOs, we have typically financed these investments through repurchase and credit agreements. We use these agreements to finance our acquisition of investments until we have accumulated a sufficient quantity of investments, at which time we may refinance them through a CLO securitization. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible investments to maximize the efficiency of a CLO issuance. In addition, conditions in the debt capital markets may make the issuance of CLOs less attractive to us even when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral, or we may not be able to execute a CLO transaction on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to issue a CLO to finance these investments, we may be required to utilize other forms of potentially less attractive financing.. The use of CLO financings with over-collateralization and interest coverage requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flows.. The terms of CLOs will generally provide that the principal amount of investments must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount and that interest income exceeds interest expense by a certain amount. Generally, CLO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses or other factors cause a decline in collateral or cash flow levels, the cash flow otherwise payable on subordinated classes may be redirected to repay senior classes of CLOs until the issuer or the collateral is in compliance with the terms of the governing documents. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive interest payments from assets pledged to secure CLOs. We cannot assure that the performance tests will be satisfied. If our investments fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization, interest coverage or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CLOs will increase. With respect to future CLOs we may issue, we cannot assure, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties as to the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization and interest coverage terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors upon which net income to us will be calculated. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may adversely affect the availability of net income to us.. We may not be able to find suitable replacement investments for CLO reinvestment periods.. CLOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the CLO can be reinvested for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable investments during the reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CLO governing documents and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CLOs. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause, among other things, lower returns, interest deficiencies, hyper-amortization of the senior CLO liabilities and may cause us to reduce the life of the CLO and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses.. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CLOs.. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize through CLOs do not comply with representations and warranties we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. 24. Table of Contents. Our loans and investments may be subject to fluctuations in interest rates which may not be adequately protected, or protected at all, by our hedging strategies.. Our current investment strategy for our Structured Business emphasizes loans with both floating and fixed interest rates. Floating rate investments earn interest at rates that adjust from time to time (typically monthly) based upon an index (typically LIBOR), allowing this portion of our portfolio to be insulated from changes in value due specifically to changes in interest rates. Fixed rate investments, however, do not have adjusting interest rates and, as prevailing interest rates change, the relative value of the fixed cash flows from these investments will cause potentially significant changes in value. The majority of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities in our Structured Business have floating rates of interest. However, depending on market conditions, fixed rate assets may become a greater portion of our new loan originations. We may employ various hedging strategies to limit the effects of changes in interest rates (and in some cases credit spreads), including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate derivative products. No strategy can completely insulate us from the risks associated with interest rate changes and there is a risk that they may provide no protection at all and potentially compound the impact of changes in interest rates. Hedging transactions involve certain additional risks such as counterparty risk, the legal enforceability of hedging contracts, the early repayment of hedged transactions and the risk that unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may cause a significant loss of basis in the contract and a change in current period expense. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to enter into hedging transactions or that such hedging transactions will adequately protect us against the foregoing risks. In addition, cash flow hedges which are not perfectly correlated (and appropriately designated and documented as such) with a variable rate financing will impact our reported income as gains and losses on the ineffective portion of such hedges will be recorded on our statement of income.. Hedging instruments often are not guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house and involve risks and costs.. The cost of using hedging instruments increases during periods of rising and volatile interest rates and as the period covered by the instrument lengthens. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased.. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they currently are often not guaranteed by an exchange or clearing house. The enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future.. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract). The amount due would be equal to. 25. Table of Contents. the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition.. We are subject to certain counterparty risks related to our derivative contracts.. We periodically hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by entering into derivative financial instrument contracts. In a global credit crisis, there is a risk that counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out contracts. The failure of a counterparty that holds collateral we post in connection with certain interest rate swap agreements could result in the loss of such collateral.. Our investments financed in foreign locations may involve significant risks.. We have financed, and, if the opportunities exist in the future, we may continue to finance, certain of our investments outside of the U.S. Financing investments in foreign locations may expose us to additional risks not typically inherent in the U.S. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets, the lack of available information, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility.. Although our current transaction outside the U.S. is denominated in U.S. dollars, future transactions may be denominated in a foreign currency, which would subject us to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize such risk, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. As a result, a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability if future transactions outside the U.S. are denominated in a foreign currency.. The loss of, or changes in, our Agency Business's relationships with the GSEs, U.S. Department of HUD and institutional investors would adversely affect our ability to originate commercial real estate loans through GSE and HUD programs, which would materially and adversely affect us.. Currently, the Agency Business originates nearly all of its loans for sale through GSE and HUD programs. The Agency Business is approved as a Fannie Mae DUS lender nationwide, a Freddie Mac Program Plus lender in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, a Freddie Mac Targeted Affordable Housing, Manufactured Housing Community, Seniors Housing and SBL lender nationwide, a HUD MAP and LEAN lender nationwide, and a Ginnie Mae issuer. Our status as an approved lender affords us a number of advantages and may be terminated by the applicable GSE or HUD at any time. The loss of such status would, or changes in our relationships could, prevent us from being able to originate commercial real estate loans for sale through the particular GSE or HUD, which would materially and adversely affect us. It could also result in a loss of similar approvals from other GSEs or HUD.. We also originate and sell loans to investment banks through the CMBS conduit markets. If these investment banks discontinue their relationship with us and replacement investors cannot be found on a timely basis, we could be adversely affected.. 26. Table of Contents. A change to the conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related actions, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our Agency Business.. Currently, the Agency Business originates nearly all of its loans for sale through GSE and HUD programs. Additionally, a substantial majority of our servicing rights are derived from loans we sell through GSE and HUD programs. Changes in the business charters, structure, or existence of one or both of the GSEs could eliminate or substantially reduce the number of loans we may originate with the GSEs, which in turn would lead to a reduction in fee and interest income we derive with respect to such loans and would also adversely affect our servicing revenue. These effects would likely cause our Agency Business to realize significantly lower revenues from loan originations and servicing fees and ultimately would have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Conservatorships of the GSEs. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (\"FHFA\"), the GSEs' regulator, placed each GSE into conservatorship in 2008. The conservatorship is a statutory process designed to preserve and conserve the GSEs' assets and property and put them in a sound and solvent condition. The conservatorships have no specified termination dates and there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including how long they will continue to exist in their current forms, the extent of their roles in the housing markets, what forms they will have and whether they will continue to exist following conservatorship. In 2014, the FHFA released its strategic plan for the GSEs, in which it changed its goal of \"contraction\" of the GSEs' multifamily businesses to \"maintaining\" the businesses.. Housing Finance Reform. Congress has continued to consider housing finance reform. In the past few years, members of Congress introduced several bills to reform the housing finance system, including the GSEs. Several of the bills require the wind down or receivership of the GSEs within a specified period of enactment and place certain restrictions on the GSEs' activities prior to being wound down or placed into receivership. The Trump Administration has made comments indicating that housing finance reform may be on their agenda, however, it is unclear at this time what their goals are with respect to the future of the GSE's.. We expect Congress will continue to consider housing finance reform, including conducting hearings and considering legislation that would alter the housing finance system, including the activities or operations of the GSEs. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. As a result, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs.. In November 2017, the FHFA released the GSE 2018 Scorecard (\"2018 Scorecard,\") which established Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's loan origination caps at $35.0 billion (\"2018 Caps\") each for the multifamily finance market, a $1.5 billion decrease from the 2017 loan origination caps. Affordable housing loans, loans to small multifamily properties, and manufactured housing rental community loans continue to be excluded from the 2018 Caps. In addition, the definition of the affordable loan exclusions has added an extremely-high cost market category, continues to encompass affordable housing in high- and very-high cost markets and allows for an exclusion from the 2018 Caps for the pro-rata portion of any loan on a multifamily property that includes affordable units. The 2018 Scorecard continues to provide FHFA the flexibility to review the estimated size of the multifamily loan origination market quarterly and proactively adjust the 2018 Caps accordingly. The 2018 Scorecard also continues to provide exclusions for loans to properties in underserved markets and for loans to finance certain energy or water efficiency improvements, however, to qualify for this exclusion, the projected annual energy or water savings must be at least 25%. Our originations with the GSEs are highly profitable executions as they provide significant gains from the sale of our loans, non-cash gains related. 27. Table of Contents. to MSRs and servicing revenues. Therefore, a decline in our GSE originations would negatively impact our financial results. We are unsure whether the FHFA will impose stricter limitations on GSE multifamily production volume in the future.. Our Agency Business is subject to risk of loss in connection with defaults on loans sold under the Fannie Mae DUS program that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. Under the Fannie Mae DUS program, our Agency Business originates and services multifamily loans for Fannie Mae without having to obtain Fannie Mae's prior approval for certain loans, as long as the loans meet the underwriting guidelines set forth by Fannie Mae. In return for the delegated authority to make loans and the commitment to purchase loans by Fannie Mae, we must maintain minimum collateral with Fannie Mae and we are required to share risk of loss on loans sold through Fannie Mae. Under the full risk-sharing formula, we absorb the first 5% of any losses on the UPB of a loan at the time of loss settlement, and above 5% we share the loss with Fannie Mae, with our maximum loss capped at 20% of the original UPB of a loan. Our Agency Business has modified its risk-sharing obligations on some Fannie Mae DUS loans to reduce potential loss exposure on those loans. In addition, Fannie Mae can double or triple our risk-sharing obligations if the loan does not meet specific underwriting criteria or if the loan defaults within 12 months of its sale to Fannie Mae. As of December 31, 2017, the Agency Business had pledged $42.0 million as collateral against future losses under $12.50 billion of loans outstanding that are subject to risk-sharing obligations. Fannie Mae collateral requirements may change in the future. As of December 31, 2017, the Agency Business's allowance for loss-sharing balance was $30.5 million. We cannot ensure that this balance will be sufficient to cover future loss sharing obligations. While our Agency Business originates loans that meet the underwriting guidelines defined by Fannie Mae, in addition to our own internal underwriting guidelines, underwriting criteria may not always protect against loan defaults. Other factors may also affect a borrower's decision to default on a loan, such as property, cash flow, occupancy, maintenance needs and other financing obligations. If loan defaults increase, our risk-sharing obligation payments under the Fannie Mae DUS program may increase and such defaults and payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. In addition, any failure to pay our share of losses under the Fannie Mae DUS program could result in the revocation of our license from Fannie Mae and in the exercise of various remedies available to Fannie Mae under the Fannie Mae DUS program, including the transfer of our servicing portfolio to another Fannie Mae approved servicer.. If we fail to act proactively with delinquent borrowers in an effort to avoid a default, the number of delinquent loans could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. As a loan servicer for GSEs and HUD, we are the primary contact with the borrower throughout the life of the loan and we are responsible, pursuant to agreements with the GSEs, HUD and institutional investors, for asset management. We are also responsible, together with the applicable GSE, HUD, or institutional investor, for taking actions to mitigate losses. We believe we have developed an effective asset management process for tracking each loan we service. However, we may be unsuccessful in identifying loans that are in danger of underperforming or defaulting or in taking appropriate action once those loans are identified. While we can make recommendations, decisions regarding loss mitigation are within the control of the GSEs, HUD and institutional investors. When loans become delinquent, we may incur additional expenses in servicing and asset managing the loans and we are required to advance principal and interest payments and tax and insurance escrow amounts. Our Agency Business could also be subject to a loss of its contractual servicing fee, and it could suffer losses of up to 20% (or more for loans that do not meet specific underwriting criteria or default within 12 months) of the UPB of a Fannie Mae DUS loan with full risk-sharing. These items could have a negative impact on our cash flows and a negative effect on the net carrying value of the MSRs on our. 28. Table of Contents. balance sheet and could result in a charge to our earnings. As a result of the foregoing, a rise in delinquencies could have a material adverse effect on our Agency Business.. A reduction in the prices paid for the loans and services of our Agency Business or an increase in loan or security interest rates by investors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. The Agency Business's results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected if the GSEs, HUD or institutional investors lower the price they are willing to pay for loans or services or adversely change the material terms of their loan purchases or servicing arrangements with us. A number of factors determine the price we receive for our agency loans. With respect to Fannie Mae related originations, loans are generally sold as Fannie Mae insured securities to third-party investors. For HUD related originations, loans are generally sold as Ginnie Mae securities to third-party investors. In both cases, the price paid to us reflects, in part, the competitive market bidding process for these securities.. Our Agency Business sells loans directly to Freddie Mac. Freddie Mac may choose to hold, sell or later securitize such loans. We believe terms set by Freddie Mac are influenced by similar market factors as those that impact the price of Fannie Mae insured or Ginnie Mae securities, although the pricing process differs. With respect to loans that are placed with institutional investors, the origination fees that we receive from borrowers are determined through negotiations, competition and other market conditions.. Loan servicing fees are based, in part, on the risk-sharing obligations associated with the loan and the market pricing of credit risk. The credit risk premium offered by Fannie Mae for new loans can change periodically but remains fixed once we enter into a commitment to sell the loan. Over the past several years, Fannie Mae loan servicing fees have been higher due to the market pricing of credit risk. There can be no assurance that such fees will continue to remain at such levels or that such levels will be sufficient if delinquencies occur.. A significant portion of our Agency Business's revenue is derived from loan servicing fees, and declines in, or terminations of, servicing engagements or breaches of servicing agreements, including as a result of non-performance by third parties that we engage for back-office loan servicing functions, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We expect that loan servicing fees will constitute a significant portion of our Agency Business's revenues for the foreseeable future. Nearly all of these fees are derived from loans that have been originated and sold through GSE and HUD programs. A decline in the number or value of loans that the Agency Business originates for these investors or terminations of its servicing engagements will decrease these fees. HUD has the right to terminate our current servicing engagements for cause. In addition to termination for cause, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may terminate our servicing engagements without cause by paying a termination fee. The Agency Business is also subject to losses that may arise as a result of servicing errors, such as a failure to maintain insurance, pay taxes or provide required notices. In addition, we have contracted with a third party to perform certain routine back-office aspects of loan servicing. If we, or this third party, fail to perform, or we breach, or the third-party causes a breach, of our servicing obligations to the GSEs or HUD, our servicing engagements may be terminated. Declines or terminations of servicing engagements or breaches of such obligations could materially and adversely affect our financial results.. 29. Table of Contents. We satisfy all of our restricted liquidity requirements with Fannie Mae with a letter of credit issued by one of our lenders. If the letter of credit became unavailable to us for any reason, we could suffer a significant reduction in our cash flow from operations, or we may breach our obligations to Fannie Mae, which would have a material adverse effect on our Agency Business.. Our Agency Business is required to pledge restricted cash as collateral for possible losses resulting from loans originated under the Fannie Mae DUS program in accordance with the terms of loss sharing agreements with Fannie Mae. As of December 31, 2017, this requirement totaled $41.8 million and was fully satisfied with a $42.0 million letter of credit issued to Fannie Mae by one of our lenders. We have an additional $3.0 million available under this letter of credit and then will be required to post cash for any future increases in this collateral requirement. Our letter of credit facility expires in September 2020. The facility is collateralized by the servicing cash flow generated from the Agency Business's Fannie Mae portfolio and contains certain financial and other covenants. If we fail to satisfy any of these covenants, or we are unable to renew or replace this facility on favorable terms, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our financial condition. If we were unable to replace the letter of credit facility with either a similar facility or cash, we would be in breach of our obligations to Fannie Mae, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. The Agency Business is subject to the risk of failed loan deliveries, and even after a successful closing and delivery, may be required to repurchase the loan or to indemnify the investor if there is a breach of a representation or warranty made by the Agency Business in connection with the sale of the loan through a GSE or HUD program, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our Agency Business bears the risk that a borrower will choose not to close on a loan that has been pre-sold to an investor or that the investor will choose not to purchase a loan under certain circumstances, including, for example, a significant casualty event that impacts the condition of a property after we fund the loan and prior to the investor purchase date. We also bear the risk of serious errors in loan documentation that prevent timely delivery of the loan prior to the investor purchase date. A complete failure to deliver a loan could be a default under the warehouse line used to finance the loan. Although the Agency Business has experienced only three failed loan deliveries in its history, none of which had a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations, we can provide no assurance that we will not experience additional failed deliveries in the future or that any losses will not be material or will be mitigated through property insurance or payment protections.. We must make certain representations and warranties concerning each loan we originate for GSE or HUD programs. The representations and warranties relate to our practices in the origination and servicing of the loans and the accuracy of the information being provided by us. For example, we are generally required to provide the following, among other, representations and warranties: we are authorized to do business and to sell or assign the loan; the loan conforms to the requirements of the GSE or HUD and certain laws and regulations; the underlying mortgage represents a valid first lien on the property and there are no other liens on the property; the loan documents are valid and enforceable; taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, rents and similar other payments have been paid or escrowed; the property is insured, conforms to zoning laws and remains intact; and we do not know of any issues regarding the loan that are reasonably expected to cause the loan to be delinquent or unacceptable for investment or adversely affect its value. We are permitted to satisfy certain of these representations and warranties by furnishing a title insurance policy.. In the event of a breach of any representation or warranty, investors could, among other things, require us to repurchase the full amount of the loan and seek indemnification for losses from it or, in the case of Fannie Mae, increase the level of risk-sharing on the loan. Our obligation to repurchase the loan is independent of our risk-sharing obligations. The GSEs or HUD could require us to repurchase a loan if representations and warranties are breached, even if the loan is not in default. Because the accuracy of many such representations and warranties generally is based on our actions or on third-. 30. Table of Contents. party reports, such as title reports and environmental reports, we may not receive similar representations and warranties from other parties that would serve as a claim against them. Even if we receive representations and warranties from third parties and have a claim against them in the event of a breach, our ability to recover on any such claim may be limited. Our ability to recover against a borrower that breaches its representations and warranties to us may be similarly limited. Our ability to recover on a claim against any party would also be dependent, in part, upon the financial condition and liquidity of such party. Although we believe that we have capable personnel at all levels, use qualified third parties and have established controls to ensure that all loans are originated pursuant to requirements established by the GSEs and HUD, in addition to our own internal requirements, there can be no assurance that we, our employees or third parties will not make mistakes. Any significant repurchase or indemnification obligations imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on the Agency Business.. For most loans we service under the Fannie Mae and HUD programs, we are required to advance payments due to investors if the borrower is delinquent in making such payments, which requirement could adversely impact our liquidity and harm our results of operations.. For most loans we service under the Fannie Mae DUS program, we are required to advance the principal and interest payments and tax and insurance escrow amounts if the borrower is delinquent in making loan payments. After four continuous months of making advances on behalf of the borrower, we can submit a reimbursement claim to Fannie Mae, which Fannie Mae may approve at its discretion. We are reimbursed by Fannie Mae for these advances in the event the loan is brought current. In the event of a default, any advances made by the Agency Business are used to reduce the proceeds required to settle any loss share. Our advances may also be reimbursed, to the extent that the default settlement proceeds on the collateral exceed the UPB.. Under the HUD program, we are obligated to advance tax and insurance escrow amounts and principal and interest payments on the underlying loan until the Ginnie Mae security has been fully paid. In the event of a default on a HUD insured loan, we can elect to assign the loan to HUD and file a mortgage insurance claim. HUD will reimburse approximately 99% of any losses of principal and interest on the loan and Ginnie Mae will reimburse most of the remaining losses of principal and interest.. Although the Agency Business has historically funded all required advances from operating cash flow, there can be no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. If the Agency Business does not have sufficient operating cash flows to fund such advances, we may need to finance such amounts. Such financing may not be available to us, or, if it is available, may be costly and could prevent the Agency Business from pursuing its business and growth strategies.. Our Agency Business may not be able to hire and retain qualified loan originators or grow and maintain its relationships with key customers, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to implement our business and growth strategies could be limited.. The Agency Business depends on its loan originators to generate borrower clients by, among other things, developing relationships with commercial property owners, real estate agents and brokers, developers and others, which leads to repeat and referral business. Accordingly, we must be able to attract, motivate and retain skilled loan originators. The market for loan originators is highly competitive and may lead to increased costs to hire and retain them. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract or retain qualified loan originators. If we cannot attract, motivate or retain a sufficient number of skilled loan originators, or even if we can motivate or retain them but at higher costs, we could be materially and adversely affected.. 31. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters. If our Agency Business fails to comply with the numerous government regulations and program requirements of the GSEs and HUD, we may lose our approved lender status with these entities and fail to gain additional approvals or licenses for our business. We are also subject to changes in laws, regulations and existing GSE and HUD program requirements, including potential increases in reserve and risk retention requirements that could increase our costs and affect the way we conduct the Agency Business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.. The Agency Business's operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local government authorities, various laws and judicial and administrative decisions, and regulations and policies of the GSEs and HUD. These laws, regulations, rules and policies impose, among other things, minimum net worth, operational liquidity and collateral requirements. Fannie Mae requires the Agency Business to maintain operational liquidity based on a formula that considers the balance of the loan and the level of credit loss exposure (level of risk-sharing). Fannie Mae requires its DUS lenders to maintain collateral, which may include pledged securities, for their risk-sharing obligations. The amount of collateral required under the Fannie Mae DUS program is calculated at the loan level and is based on the balance of the loan, the level of risk-sharing, the seasoning of the loans and the rating of the Fannie Mae DUS lender.. Regulatory authorities also require the Agency Business to submit financial reports and to maintain a quality control plan for the underwriting, origination and servicing of loans. Numerous laws and regulations also impose qualification and licensing obligations on the Agency Business and impose requirements and restrictions affecting, among other things: the Agency Business's loan originations; maximum interest rates, finance charges and other fees that we may charge; disclosures to consumers; the terms of secured transactions; collection, repossession and claims handling procedures; personnel qualifications; and other trade practices. The Agency Business is also subject to inspection by the GSEs, HUD, and regulatory authorities. Any failure to comply with these requirements could lead to, among other things, the loss of a license as an approved GSE or HUD lender, the inability to gain additional approvals or licenses, the termination of contractual rights without compensation, demands for indemnification or loan repurchases, class action lawsuits and administrative enforcement actions.. Regulatory and legal requirements are subject to change. For example, Fannie Mae increased its collateral requirements, on loans classified by Fannie Mae as Tier II, from 60 basis points to 75 basis points in 2013, which applied to a large portion of the Agency Business's outstanding Fannie Mae at risk portfolio. The incremental requirement for any newly originated Fannie Mae Tier II loans will be funded over the 48 months subsequent to the sale of the loan to Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae has indicated that it may increase collateral requirements in the future, which may adversely impact our Agency Business.. If we fail to comply with laws, regulations and market standards regarding the privacy, use, and security of customer information, or if we are the target of a successful cyber-attack, we may be subject to legal and regulatory actions and our reputation would be harmed.. We receive, maintain, and store the non-public personal information of our loan applicants. The technology and other controls and processes designed to secure our customer information and to prevent, detect, and remedy any unauthorized access to that information were designed to obtain reasonable, not absolute, assurance that such information is secure and that any unauthorized access is identified and addressed appropriately. We are not aware of any data breaches, successful hacker attacks, unauthorized access and misuse, or significant computer viruses affecting our networks that may have occurred in the past; however, our controls may not have detected, and may in the future fail to prevent or detect, unauthorized access to our borrower information. If this information is inappropriately accessed and used by a third party or an employee for illegal purposes, such as identity. 32. Table of Contents. theft, we may be responsible to the affected applicant or borrower for any losses that may have been incurred as a result of misappropriation. In such an instance, we may be liable to a governmental authority for fines or penalties associated with a lapse in the integrity and security of our customers' information.. Risks Related to Our Corporate and Ownership Structure. We are substantially controlled by ACM and our chief executive officer.. Our chairman, chief executive officer and president and the chief executive officer of ACM, beneficially owns approximately 70% of the outstanding membership interests of ACM. ACM has approximately 25% of the voting power of our outstanding stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result of our chief executive officer's beneficial ownership of stock held by ACM, as well as his beneficial ownership of additional shares of our common stock, our chief executive officer has approximately 31% of the voting power of our outstanding stock as of December 31, 2017. Because of his positions with us and ACM, and his ability to effectively vote a substantial minority of our outstanding stock, our chief executive officer has significant influence over our policies and strategy.. Our charter generally does not permit ownership in excess of 5% of our capital stock, and attempts to acquire our capital stock in excess of this limit are ineffective without prior approval from our Board of Directors.. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits a beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 5% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or 5% (by value) of our outstanding shares of stock of all classes or series (excluding OP Units), unless an exemption is granted by the Board of Directors. Our charter's constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our charter's ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the Board of Directors will result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or otherwise voided. Our Board of Directors have approved resolutions under our charter allowing our chief executive officer and ACM, in relation to our chief executive officer's controlling equity interest, a former director, as well as three outside investors, to own more than the ownership interest limit of our common stock stated in our charter.. Our staggered board and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control.. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the Class I, Class II and Class III directors will expire in 2019, 2020 and 2018, respectively. Directors of each class are chosen for three year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. 33. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability.. We conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then:. <U+0095> We would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;    <U+0095> Any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and     <U+0095> Unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations, the income of which would be subject to federal and state income tax.. The Agency Business may have adverse tax consequences.. As REITs, we and Arbor Realty SR, Inc. generally are unable to directly hold certain assets and operations in connection with the Agency Business. As a result, we are holding those assets and operations through our taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a TRS) of Arbor Realty SR, Inc., which is subject to regular corporate income tax. Moreover, under the REIT asset tests (i) no more than 25% of our total gross assets may consist of non-qualifying assets, including the stock or other securities of one or more TRSs and other non-qualifying assets (such as goodwill and similar assets acquired as a result of the acquisition of our Agency Business), and (ii) for 2018 and subsequent taxable years, no more than 20% of our total gross assets may consist of the stock or other securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, although dividends payable by TRSs constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 95% REIT gross income test, they are non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test. Accordingly, if the value of our Agency Business or the income generated thereby. 34. Table of Contents. increases relative to the value of our other, REIT-compliant assets and income, we or Arbor Realty SR, Inc. may fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements applicable to REITs. Although the Agency Business is not expected to adversely affect our ability, or that of Arbor Realty SR, Inc., to continue to qualify as a REIT in the future, no assurances can be given in that regard.. The \"taxable mortgage pool\" rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.. Certain of our securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. So long as 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool are owned by an entity that qualifies as a REIT, including our subsidiary Arbor Realty SR, Inc., we would generally not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other tax benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt \"disqualified organizations,\" such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we could incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we could be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot comprise more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities, or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities, of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than assets which qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test) may consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. Liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our REIT status.. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate investments to satisfy our obligations to future lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT.. 35. Table of Contents. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends to our stockholders.. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income each year to our stockholders. In order to qualify for the tax benefits afforded to REITs, we intend to declare quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. In the event of a future downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly dividends. The timing and amount of dividends are in the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant.. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders are:. <U+0095> Use of funds and our ability to make profitable structured finance investments;    <U+0095> Defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio;    <U+0095> Anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates; and     <U+0095> Increased debt service requirements, including those resulting from higher interest rates on variable rate indebtedness.. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to make distributions. If we are not able to comply with the restrictive covenants and financial ratios contained in future credit facilities, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may also be impaired. We cannot assure that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders in the future or that the level of any distributions we make will increase over time.. We may need to borrow funds to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, and a portion of our distributions may constitute a return of capital. Debt service on any borrowings for this purpose will reduce our cash available for distribution.. To qualify as a REIT, we must generally, among other requirements, distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our stockholders each year. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds, issue stock or sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year.. 36. Table of Contents. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their shareholders may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our shares. The U.S. federal income tax rules, including those dealing with REITs, are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform\") makes substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Among those changes for corporations, beginning in 2018, the corporate federal tax rate (which impacts our TRS) has been permanently reduced from 35% to 21%; various currently allowed deductions have been eliminated or modified, including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest; and the deductions of net operating losses are subject to certain additional limitations. Changes that impact individuals and non-corporate taxpayers (which generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions) include a reduction in the top marginal rate to 37%; capital gain income (including capital gain dividends that we pay) remains subject to tax at 20%; and dividends paid by a REIT (including dividends that we pay that are not capital gain dividends) are eligible for a 20% deduction off of the applicable marginal rate. Therefore, the top marginal rate on such dividends is 29.6% (80% of the top marginal rate of 37%).. A portion of our dividends (including dividends received from our TRS) may be eligible for preferential rates as \"qualified dividend income,\" which has a top individual tax rate of 20% to U.S. stockholders. In addition, certain U.S. stockholders who are individuals, trusts or estates, and whose income exceeds certain thresholds, are required to pay a 3.8% medicare tax on our dividends and gain from the sale of our stock.. The effect of the changes made in the Tax Reform is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or common stock or market conditions generally. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the Tax Reform will require guidance through the issuance of treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. It is also likely that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the Tax Reform next year, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders.. Restrictions on share accumulation in REITs could discourage a change of control of us.. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year.. To prevent five or fewer individuals from acquiring more than 50% of our outstanding shares and a resulting failure to qualify as a REIT, our charter provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person, including entities, may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 5% of the aggregate value or number of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock, or more than 5%, by value, of our outstanding shares of stock of all classes or series, in the aggregate.. Shares of our stock that would otherwise be directly or indirectly acquired or held by a person in violation of the ownership limitations are, in general, automatically transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary, and the purported owner's interest in such shares is void. In addition, any person who acquires shares in excess of these limits is obliged to immediately give written notice to us. 37. Table of Contents. and provide us with any information we may request in order to determine the effect of the acquisition on our status as a REIT.. While these restrictions are designed to prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of our shares, they could also discourage a change in control of our company. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to stockholders or limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares."
