[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company faces risks in the normal course of business and through global, regional, and local events that could have an adverse impact on its reputation, operations, and financial performance.. Management directs a Company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program, with oversight from the Company's Board of Directors.  The Company's Audit Committee has the delegated risk management oversight responsibility and receives updates on the risk management processes and key risk factors on a quarterly basis.. The risk factors that follow are the main risks that the ERM program focuses on to protect and enhance shareholder value through intentional risk mitigation plans based on management-defined risk limits.. 9. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued). The Company, through its business unit, functional, and corporate teams, continually updates, assesses, monitors, and mitigates these and other business and compliance risks in accordance with the ERM Program and as monitored by the ERM Program team and Chief Risk Officer.. The availability and prices of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the Company procures, transports, stores, processes, and merchandises can be affected by weather conditions, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the Company's control and could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations due to changes in weather conditions, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  The Company uses a global network of procurement, processing, and transportation assets, as well as robust communications between global commodity merchandiser teams, to continually assess price and basis opportunities.  These commodity trade teams monitor commodity positions against management established limits (including a corporate wide value-at-risk metric), with robust internal reporting to ensure optimized results versus the Company's strategic plans.  Additionally, the Company depends globally on agricultural producers to ensure an adequate supply of the agricultural commodities used by the Company in its operations is maintained.  These factors have historically caused volatility in the availability and prices of agricultural commodities and, consequently, in the Company's operating results and working capital requirements.  Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors or other reasons could adversely affect the Company's profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials and/or limiting the Company's ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner.  For example, a drought in North America in 2012 reduced the availability of corn and soybean inventories while prices increased.  High and volatile commodity prices can adversely affect the Company's ability to meet its liquidity needs.  Conversely, if supplies are abundant and crop production globally outpaces demand for more than one or two crop cycles, price volatility is somewhat diminished.  This could result in reduced operating results due to the lack of supply chain dislocations and reduced market spread and basis opportunities.. Advances in technology, such as seed and crop protection technology, farming techniques, or speed of information flow, may reduce the significance of dislocations and arbitrage opportunities in the agricultural global markets, which may reduce the earnings potential of agricultural merchandisers and processors such as the Company.. The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates.. The Company faces significant competition in each of its businesses and has numerous competitors.  The company competes for the acquisition of inputs such as agricultural commodities, transportation services, and other materials and supplies, as well as for workforce and talent.  Additionally, competitors offer similar products and services, as well as alternative products and services, to the Company's customers.  The Company is dependent on being able to generate revenues in excess of cost of products sold in order to obtain margins, profits, and cash flows to meet or exceed its targeted financial performance measures and provide cash for operating, working capital, dividend, or capital expenditure needs.  Competition impacts the Company's ability to generate and increase its gross profit as a result of the following factors.  Pricing of the Company's products is partly dependent upon industry processing capacity, which is impacted by competitor actions to bring idled capacity on-line, build new production capacity or execute aggressive consolidation.  Many of the products bought and sold by the Company are global commodities or are derived from global commodities.  The markets for global commodities are highly price competitive and in many cases the commodities are subject to substitution.  Significant changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar, particularly the currencies of major crop growing countries, could also make goods and products of these countries more competitive than U.S. products, thereby negatively impacting the competitiveness of the Company's significant origination, processing, and export footprint, and the Company's operating results.  Improved yields in different crop growing regions may reduce the reliance on origination territories in which the Company has a significant presence.  In addition, continued merger and acquisition activities resulting in further consolidations result in greater cost competitiveness and global scale of certain players in the industry that could impact the relative competitiveness of the Company, especially when acquirers are state-owned and/or backed by public funds and have profit and return objectives that may differ from publicly traded enterprises.  To compete effectively, the Company focuses on improving efficiency in its production and distribution operations, developing and maintaining appropriate market share, maintaining a high level of product safety and quality, and working with customers to develop new products and tailored solutions.. 10. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued). Fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  The Company's processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  The Company's transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products.  Significant increases in the cost of these items, including any consequences of regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases, could adversely affect the Company's production costs and operating results.. The Company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products, or in the case of ethanol, blended into gasoline to increase octane content.  Therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline, diesel fuel, and other octane enhancers.  A significant decrease in the price of gasoline, diesel fuel, or other octane enhancers could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the Company's ethanol and biodiesel and could adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.  The Company uses derivative contracts as anticipatory hedges for both purchases of commodity inputs and sales of energy-based products in order to protect itself against these price trends and to protect and maximize processing margins.. The Company is subject to economic downturns and regional economic volatilities, which could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. While 56 percent of the Company's processing plants and 74 percent of its procurement facilities are located in the United States, the Company also has significant operations in both developed areas (such as Western Europe, Canada, and Brazil) and emerging market areas (such as Eastern Europe, Asia, portions of South and Central America, the Middle East, and Africa).  One of the Company's strategies is to expand the global reach of its core model which may include expanding or developing its business in emerging market areas such as Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Both developed and emerging market areas are subject to impacts of economic downturns, including decreased demand for the Company's products, and reduced availability of credit, or declining credit quality of the Company's suppliers, customers, and other counterparties.  In addition, emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile operating conditions including, but not limited to, logistics limitations or delays, labor-related challenges, limitations or regulations affecting trade flows (such as concerning genetically modified organisms), local currency concerns, and other economic and political instability.  Political fiscal instability could generate intrusive regulations in emerging markets potentially creating unanticipated assessments of taxes, fees, increased risks of corruption, etc.  Economic downturns and volatile market conditions could adversely affect the Company's operating results and ability to execute its long-term business strategies, thus reducing the Company's overall market value.  The Company mitigates this risk in many ways including country risk analysis, government relations and tax compliance activities, and active ethics compliance training requirements.. The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations, and mandates globally which could adversely affect the Company's operating results and forward strategy.. The Company does business globally, connecting crops and markets in more than 170 countries.  The Company is required to comply with the numerous and far-reaching laws and regulations administered by United States federal, state, local, and foreign governmental authorities.  The Company must comply with other general business regulations covering areas such as accounting and income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, trade sanctions, environmental, product safety, and handling and production of regulated substances.  The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due.  These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company.  As examples, the Company has received large tax assessments from tax authorities in Brazil and Argentina, challenging income tax positions taken by subsidiaries of the Company covering various prior periods.  Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or appropriately resolve these challenges could subject the Company to administrative, civil, and criminal remedies including fines, penalties, disgorgement, injunctions, and recalls of its products, and damage to its reputation.. The production of the Company's products requires the use of materials which can create emissions of certain regulated substances, including greenhouse gas emissions.  Although the Company has programs in place throughout the organization globally to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, failure to comply with these laws and regulations can have serious consequences, including civil, administrative, and criminal penalties as well as a negative impact on the Company's reputation, business, cash flows, and results of operations.. 11. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued). In addition, changes to regulations or implementation of additional regulations, for example the imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gases or regulatory modernization of food safety laws, may require the Company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect operating results.. Government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries; regulatory policies or matters that affect a variety of businesses; taxation polices; and political instability could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. Agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies, mandates, regulations, and trade agreements. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, foreign exchange rates, and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, including policies related to genetically modified organisms, traceability standards, product safety and labeling, renewable fuels, and low carbon fuel mandates, can influence the planting of certain crops, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, the volume and types of imports and exports, the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials, the viability and volume of production of certain of the Company's products, and industry profitability.  For example, changes in government policies or regulations of ethanol and biodiesel, including but not limited to changes in the Renewable Fuel Standard program under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in the United States, can have an impact on the Company's operating results.  International trade regulations can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions.  Regulations of financial markets and instruments, including the Dodd-Frank Act, Consumer Protection Act, and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, create uncertainty and may lead to additional risks and costs, and could adversely affect the Company's futures commission merchant business and its agricultural commodity risk management practices.  Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of the Company's products; adversely affect the Company's ability to deploy adequate hedging programs; restrict the Company's ability to do business in its existing and target markets; and adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.. The Company's operating results could be affected by political instability and by changes in other governmental policies, mandates, regulations, and trade agreements including monetary, fiscal and environmental policies, laws, regulations, acquisition approvals, and other activities of governments, agencies, and similar organizations.  These risks include but are not limited to changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, safety and environmental regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome taxes and tariffs, enforceability of legal agreements and judgments, adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes, and regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases.  International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit the Company's ability to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.  There has been a recent increase in populism and nationalism in various countries around the world and the concept and benefits of free trade are being challenged.  The Company has benefited from the free flow of agricultural and food and feed ingredient products from the U.S. and other sources to markets around the world.  Should there be an increase in tariff and restrictive trade activities around the world, the Company could be negatively impacted from its inability to enter certain markets or the price of the products being less competitive in the destination markets.. The Company's strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, and expanding its value-added product portfolio.  Government policies, including antitrust and competition law, trade restrictions, food safety regulations, sustainability requirements, traceability, and other government regulations and mandates, can impact the Company's ability to execute this strategy successfully.. The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product safety or quality; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local regulations on manufacturing or labeling; socially acceptable farming practices; environmental, health and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims.  The liability which could result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the Company.  In addition, negative publicity caused by product liability, food safety, occupational health and safety, and environmental matters may damage the Company's reputation.  The Company has a particularly strong capability and culture around occupational health and safety and food safety.  However, the occurrence of any of the matters described above could adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.. 12. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued). Certain of the Company's merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  The Company is subject to risks associated with economic, product quality, feed safety or other factors which may adversely affect the livestock and poultry businesses, including the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry.  An outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for the Company's products used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  A decrease in demand for ingredients in livestock and poultry feed could adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.  In addition, as the Company increases its investment in flavors and ingredients businesses, it is exposed to increased risks related to rapidly changing consumer preferences and the impacts these changes could have on the success of certain of the Company's customers.. The Company is exposed to potential business disruption, including but not limited to disruption of transportation services, supply of non-commodity raw materials used in its processing operations, and other impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, and accidents which could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's operations rely on dependable and efficient transportation services.  A disruption in transportation services could result in difficulties supplying materials to the Company's facilities and impair the Company's ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.  The Company relies on access to navigable rivers and waterways in order to fulfill its transportation obligations more effectively.  If access to these navigable waters is interrupted, the Company's operating results could be adversely affected.  In addition, if certain non-agricultural commodity raw materials, such as water or certain chemicals used in the Company's processing operations, are not available, the Company's business could be disrupted.  Any major lack of available water for use in certain of the Company's processing operations could have a material adverse impact on operating results.  Certain factors which may impact the availability of non-agricultural commodity raw materials are out of the Company's control including, but not limited to, disruptions resulting from weather, economic conditions, manufacturing delays or disruptions at suppliers, shortage of materials, interruption of energy supply, and unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions.. The assets and operations of the Company could be subject to extensive property damage and business disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism, for example, economic adulteration of the Company's products, or war, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, and fires. The potential effects of these conditions could adversely affect the Company's revenues and operating results.  The Company is continuing to enhance and deploy additional food safety and security procedures and controls to appropriately mitigate the risks of any adulteration of the Company's products in supply chain and finished products in production and distribution networks. In addition, the Company conforms to management systems, such as International Organization for Standardization (ISO) or other recognized global standards.. The Company's business is capital-intensive in nature and the Company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company requires significant capital, including continuing access to credit markets, to operate its current business and fund its growth strategy.  The Company's working capital requirements, including margin requirements on open positions on futures exchanges, are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  The Company also requires substantial capital to maintain and upgrade its extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations and changing safety standards in the industry.  Moreover, the expansion of the Company's business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital.  Access to credit markets and pricing of the Company's capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies.  Sufficient credit ratings allow the Company to access cost competitive tier one commercial paper markets.  If the Company is unable to maintain sufficiently high credit ratings, access to these commercial paper and other debt markets and costs of borrowings could be adversely affected.  If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain access to adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, it could restrict the Company's current operations and its growth opportunities which could adversely affect the Company's operating results.  The Company manages this risk with constant monitoring of credit/liquidity metrics, cash forecasting, and routine communications with credit rating agencies on risk management practices.. 13. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued). The Company's risk management strategies may not be effective.. The Company's business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity cash prices and derivative prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity markets.  The Company monitors position limits and counterparty risks and engages in other strategies and controls to manage these risks.  The Company has a Chief Risk Officer and an established commodity merchandising governance process to ensure proper position reporting and monitoring, limit approvals, and execute training on trade compliance, commodity regulatory reporting controls, and other policies.  The Company's monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure.  If these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating the Company's exposure to these fluctuations, it could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company has limited control over and may not realize the expected benefits of its equity investments and joint ventures.. The Company has $5.1 billion invested in or advanced to joint ventures and investments over which the Company has limited control as to the governance and management activities of these investments.  Net sales to unconsolidated affiliates during the year ended December 31, 2017 was $6.0 billion.  The Company faces certain risks, including risks related to the financial strength of the investment partner; loss of revenues and cash flows to the investment partner and related gross profit; the inability to implement beneficial management strategies, including risk management and compliance monitoring, with respect to the investment's activities; and the risk that the Company may not be able to resolve disputes with the investment partner.  The Company may encounter unanticipated operating issues, financial results, or compliance and reputational risks related to these investments that may impact the Company's revenues and operating results.  The Company mitigates this risk using controls and policies related to joint venture formation, governance including board of directors representation, merger and acquisition integration management, and harmonization of joint venture policies with the Company's policies and controls.. The Company's information technology (IT) systems, processes, and sites may suffer interruptions, security breaches, or failures which may affect the Company's ability to conduct its business.. The Company's operations rely on certain key IT systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, to provide critical data connectivity, information, and services for internal and external users.  These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, risk management activities, converting raw materials to finished products, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage the business.  The Company is also in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system on a worldwide basis as part of its ongoing business transformation program, which is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of certain financial and business transaction processes and the underlying systems environment.  Increased IT security and social engineering threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the Company's IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the Company's third party data.  The Company has put in place security measures to prevent, detect, and mitigate cyber-based attacks and instituted control procedures for cyber security incident responses and disaster recovery plans for its critical systems.  In addition, the Company monitors this risk on an ongoing basis to detect and correct any breaches and reports metrics to the highest level of management and to the Board of Directors on the quality of the Company's data security efforts and control environment.  However, if the Company's IT systems are breached, damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, or cyber-based attacks, and the Company's disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate the risks on a timely basis, the Company may suffer significant interruptions in its ability to manage its operations, loss of valuable data, actual or threatened legal actions, and damage to its reputation, which may adversely impact the Company's revenues, operating results, and financial condition."
