[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Worldwide economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our business is influenced by conditions in domestic and foreign economies, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability and cost of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Volatility in financial markets and the continued softness or further deterioration of national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations, including as follows:. • the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers;. • commercial and residential consumers of our products may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or stagnation or further declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our product;. • the fair value of the investment funds underlying our defined-benefit pension plans may decline, which could result in negative plan investment performance and additional charges, and may involve significant cash contributions to such plans to meet obligations or regulatory requirements; and. • our asset impairment assessments and underlying valuation assumptions may change, which could result from changes to estimates of future sales and cash flows that may lead to substantial impairment charges.. Continued or sustained deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate and prolong these adverse effects.. We compete with numerous flooring manufacturers in highly competitive markets. Competition can affect customer preferences, reduce demand for our products, negatively affect our product sales mix, leverage greater financial resources, or cause us to lower prices.. Our markets are highly competitive. We compete for sales of flooring products with many manufacturers of resilient and wood flooring as well as with manufacturers who also produce other types of flooring products. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Competition can reduce demand for our products, negatively affect our product sales mix or cause us to lower prices. Our failure to compete effectively through management of our product portfolio, by meeting consumer preferences, maintaining market share positions in our legacy product categories and gaining market leadership in growth product categories such as LVT, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Our customers consider our products' performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products. Shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets whether for performance or styling preferences or our inability to develop and offer new competitive performance features, could have an adverse effect on our sales.. 7. In addition, excess industry capacity for certain products in several geographic markets could lead to industry consolidation and/or increased price competition. We are also subject to potential increased price competition from overseas competitors, which may have lower cost structures.. If the availability of raw materials or energy decreases, or the costs increase and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be adversely affected.. The availability and cost of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations. For example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials and hardwood lumber in our manufacturing operations. The cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability has been limited at times. We source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability. This dependency and any limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production. Decreased access to raw materials and energy or significant increased cost to purchase these items, as well as increased transportation costs, and any corresponding inability to pass along such costs through price increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Sales fluctuations to and changes in our relationships with key customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Some of our business lines and markets are dependent on a few key customers, including independent distributors. We generally do not enter into written or long-term agreements with our independent distributors. The loss, reduction, or fluctuation of sales to one of these major customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with any one of them, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our business is dependent on construction activity. Downturns in construction activity could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our business has greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, has fewer opportunities when such activity declines. The cyclical nature of commercial and residential construction activity, including construction activity funded by the public sector, tends to be influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including the rate of growth in gross domestic product, prevailing interest rates, government spending patterns, business, investor and consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. Prolonged downturns in construction activity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our cost saving initiatives may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs or improved operating results.. We aggressively look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. We reduce, move and expand our plants and operations as needed. Such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs. Our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We may pursue strategic transactions that could create risks and present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, potential strategic transactions as opportunities arise. We routinely engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential transactions, including joint ventures, which could be significant. Any such strategic transaction involves a number of risks, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and business operations. 8. and infrastructure, and increasing or decreasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Strategic transactions could involve payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, assumption of liabilities and indemnification obligations, regulatory requirements, incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain strategic opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction or may fail to realize the intended benefits and synergies. If we fail to consummate and integrate our strategic transactions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Disruptions to or failures of our various information systems could have an adverse effect on our business.. We rely heavily on our information systems to operate our business activities, including, among other things, purchasing, distribution, inventory management, processing, shipping and receiving, billing and collection, financial reporting and record keeping. We also rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer. Any interruption, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, intentional acts of vandalism, or various forms of cybercrimes including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. There can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. The occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. Any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products or brands, which could adversely impact our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We rely on our proprietary intellectual property, including numerous patents and registered trademarks, as well as our licensed intellectual property to market, promote and sell our products. We will monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the United States and other countries. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization. In addition, the laws of some non-United States jurisdictions, particularly those of certain emerging markets, will provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the United States and present greater risks of counterfeiting and other infringement. To the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations in both established and emerging markets. Legislative, political, regulatory and economic volatility, as well as vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. A portion of our products move in international trade, with approximately 9% of our revenues from operations outside the United States and Canada in 2017. Our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks. Our international operations are also subject to various tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale.. In addition, our international growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in certain emerging markets. However, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. In many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws. 9. and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with these laws, as well as U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. As we continue to expand our business globally, including in emerging markets, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our international operations may face, which may adversely affect our business outside the United States and our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Increased costs of labor, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Increased costs of U.S. and international labor, including the costs of employee benefits plans, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. As the majority of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, we often incur costs attributable to periodic renegotiation of those agreements, which may be difficult to project. We are also subject to the risk that strikes or other conflicts with organized personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at our facilities that do not currently have union representation. Prolonged negotiations, conflicts or related activities could also lead to costly work stoppages and loss of productivity.. Adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims, environmental claims and other litigation could be costly. Insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. While we will strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet warranty or contractual requirements, or were improperly installed and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products. These claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. They could also result in negative publicity.. In addition, claims and investigations may arise related to patent infringement, distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment matters, employee benefits issues, and other compliance and regulatory matters, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters. For example, we are currently a party to various litigation matters that involve product liability, tort liability and other claims under a wide range of allegations, including illness due to exposure to certain chemicals used in the workplace, or medical conditions arising from exposure to product ingredients or the presence of trace contaminants. In some cases, these allegations involve multiple defendants and relate to legacy products that we and other defendants purportedly manufactured or sold. While we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we will not be able to predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims.. We currently maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. In addition, the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. If any significant judgment or claim is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact. We cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. 10. We require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations.. Our liquidity needs vary throughout the year. If our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs or maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants, which could result in reduced or delayed planned capital expenditures and other investments and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends on our capital stock.. Our level of indebtedness and degree of leverage could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;. • limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;. • restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and. • adversely affect our credit ratings.. We may also incur additional indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above. In addition, to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase.. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our credit agreement contains a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests.. Our $225 million senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Facility\") and the underlying credit agreement that governs our indebtedness includes covenants that, among other things, may impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests. These covenants may restrict our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or indebtedness;. • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions;. • engage in transactions with our affiliates;. • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • consolidate or merge;. • create liens;. • change the nature of our business; and. • enter into sale and lease back transactions.. Under the terms of the ABL Facility, we are required to maintain a specified fixed charge coverage ratio if our borrowings exceed certain levels. Our ability to meet these ratios could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot. 11. assure that we will meet them. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants or ratios would result in a default under the ABL Facility. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the ABL Facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under our facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest. The lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate commitments to provide further borrowings.. Our performance depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented management.. We must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in senior management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations. We compete with numerous companies for these employees and invest resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. The failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position, execution on strategic priorities and operating results.. We outsource our information technology infrastructure and certain finance and accounting functions, which makes us more dependent upon third parties.. In an effort to make our finance, accounting and information technology (\"IT\"), functions more efficient, increase related capabilities, as well as generate cost savings, we outsource certain finance and accounting functions and a significant portion of our IT infrastructure to separate third party service providers. As a result, we rely on third parties to ensure that our related needs are sufficiently met. This reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over certain processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results, and potentially, termination of provisions of these services by our suppliers. A failure of our service providers to perform may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We may be subject to liability under and may make substantial future expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities for which our ultimate liability may exceed the currently estimated and accrued amounts. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental matters and corresponding liabilities in the future. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to environmental matters.. Our industry has been subject to claims relating to raw materials. We have not received any significant claims involving our raw materials or our product performance; however, product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover claims that may arise in the future.. In addition, our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Risks Related to the Separation from AWI. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve from our separation from AWI.. As an independent, publicly-traded company, we continue to, among other things, focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, growth profile and strategic priorities, design and implement corporate strategies and policies targeted to our operational focus and strategic priorities, guide our processes and infrastructure to focus on our core strengths, implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our specific needs and more effectively. 12. respond to industry dynamics, all of which are benefits we expected to achieve from our separation. However, we may be unable to fully achieve some or all of these benefits. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. If the Separation and Distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we could be subject to significant tax liability or tax indemnity obligations.. AWI received an opinion of AWI's tax counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, on the basis of certain facts, representations, covenants and assumptions set forth in such opinion, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Separation and Distribution should qualify as a transaction that generally is tax-free to AWI and AWI's shareholders, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code.. Notwithstanding the tax opinion, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could determine on audit that the Distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or covenants set forth in the tax opinion is not correct or has been violated, or that the Distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the Distribution, or if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinion. If the Distribution is ultimately determined to be taxable, the Distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend to shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liability. In addition, AWI and/or we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities or tax indemnification obligations, whether under applicable law or the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with AWI, if it is ultimately determined that certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Distribution are taxable.. We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation transactions in the U.S., which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility.. To preserve the tax-free treatment to AWI of the Separation and the Distribution, under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with AWI, we may be restricted from taking any action that prevents the Distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, for the two-year period following the Distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from, among other things:. • entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 35% or more of our stock or substantially all of our assets, whether by merger or otherwise;. • merging, consolidating, or liquidating;. • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;. • repurchasing our capital stock; and. • ceasing to actively conduct our business.. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. In addition, under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are required to indemnify AWI against liabilities resulting from certain actions taken after the Distribution that cause the Distribution to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate such actions.. We may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we executed as part of the Separation or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire.. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement with AWI and also entered into various other agreements, including a Tax Matters Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement, a Campus Lease. 13. Agreement and Trademark License Agreements. We rely on AWI to satisfy its performance obligations under these agreements. If AWI is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses.. We will be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to AWI or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from AWI.. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution, we will indemnify AWI from and after the Separation and Distribution with respect to (i) all debts, liabilities and obligations allocated or transferred to us in connection with the Separation and Distribution (including our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such debts, liabilities or obligations after the Separation and Distribution), (ii) any misstatement or omission of a material fact in our Information Statement, dated March 24, 2016, resulting in a misleading statement, (iii) any breach by us of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Campus Lease Agreement or the Trademark License Agreements and (iv) our ownership and operation of our business. We are not aware of any existing indemnification obligations at this time, but any such indemnification obligations that may arise could be significant. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution agreement, AWI will indemnify us from and after the Separation and Distribution with respect to (i) all debts, liabilities and obligations allocated to AWI after the Separation and Distribution (including its failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such debts, liabilities or obligations after the Separation and Distribution), (ii) any breach by AWI of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the Campus Lease Agreement or the Trademark License Agreements and (iii) AWI's ownership and operation of its business. Our and AWI's ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon our and AWI's future financial strength. If we are required to indemnify AWI, or if we are not able to collect on indemnification rights from AWI, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify AWI, or if AWI will have to indemnify us, for any substantial obligations after the Distribution.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. A stockholder's percentage of ownership in us may be diluted in the future.. A stockholder's percentage ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including, without limitation, equity awards that we may grant to our directors, officers and employees. Such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such. 14. practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting;. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • the initial division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult until we have phased out our staggered board;. • a provision that directors serving on a classified board may be removed by stockholders only for cause; and. • the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors.. In addition, because we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"DGCL\"), this provision could also delay or prevent a change in control that stockholders may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and the provisions could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of AFI and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, AFI would be required to indemnify AWI for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that stockholders may consider favorable."
