[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Unstable market and economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our business is influenced by market and economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability and cost of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions.  Volatility in financial markets and the continued softness or further deterioration of national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations, including as follows:. •  the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers;. •  commercial and residential consumers of our products may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or stagnation or further declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products;. •  the value of investments underlying our defined benefit pension plans may decline, which could result in negative plan investment performance and additional charges which may involve significant cash contributions to such plans, to meet obligations or regulatory requirements; and. •  our asset impairment assessments and underlying valuation assumptions may change, which could result from changes to estimates of future sales and cash flows that may lead to substantial impairment charges.. Continued or sustained deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate and prolong these adverse effects.. Our business is dependent on construction activity. Downturns in construction activity could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines.  The cyclical nature of commercial and residential construction activity, including construction activity funded by the public sector, tends to be influenced by prevailing economic conditions, including the rate of growth in gross domestic product, prevailing interest rates, government spending patterns, business, investor and consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control.  Prolonged downturns in construction activity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the proposed disposition of our EMEA and Pacific Rim businesses.. The proposed disposition of our EMEA and Pacific Rim businesses to Knauf could cause disruptions to our business or our business relationships, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our ability to hire and retain key personnel, and parties with which we have business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with us. In addition, our management team and other employees are devoting significant time and effort to activities related to the proposed disposition.. 8. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed disposition, and many of these fees and costs are payable regardless of whether or not the disposition is completed. In the event the disposition is not completed for any reason, or the timing of its consummation is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of the incurring of these significant additional expenses and the diversion of management's attention.. The proposed disposition of our EMEA and Pacific Rim businesses is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or Knauf or, if not obtained, could prevent the completion of the proposed disposition.. Before the proposed disposition of our EMEA and Pacific Rim businesses to Knauf may be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust and competition laws and clearances or approvals must be obtained from various regulatory entities. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the disposition on competition within their relevant jurisdiction.. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions to the consummation of the disposition and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of the disposition, or resulting in additional material costs to us. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the disposition. Additionally, the completion of the disposition is conditioned on the absence of certain restraining orders or injunctions by judgment, court order or law that would prohibit the completion of the disposition.. Our markets are highly competitive. Competition can reduce demand for our products or cause us to lower prices. Failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences, developing and marketing innovative solutions, maintaining strong customer service and distribution relationships, growing market share, and expanding our solutions capabilities and reach could adversely affect our results.. Our markets are highly competitive.  Competition can reduce demand for our products, negatively affect our product sales mix or cause us to lower prices. Failure to compete effectively by meeting consumer preferences, developing and marketing innovative solutions, maintaining strong customer service and distribution relationships, growing market share and expanding our solutions capabilities and reach could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.  Our customers consider our products' performance, product styling, customer service and price when deciding whether to purchase our products.  Shifting consumer preference in our highly competitive markets, from acoustical solutions to other ceiling and wall products, for example, whether for performance or styling preferences or our inability to develop and offer new competitive performance features could have an adverse effect on our sales.  Similarly, our ability to identify, protect and market new and innovative solutions is critical to our long-term growth strategy, namely to sell into more spaces and sell more solutions in every space.  In addition, excess industry capacity for certain products in several geographic markets could lead to industry consolidation and/or increased price competition.  In certain local markets, we are also subject to potential increased price competition from foreign competitors, which may have lower cost structures.. Sales fluctuations to and changes in our relationships with key customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Some of our markets are dependent on certain key customers, including independent distributors.   The loss, reduction, or fluctuation of sales to key customers, or any adverse change in our business relationship with them, whether as a result of competition, industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability.. A number of our customers, including distributors and contractors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. Such consolidation could impact margin growth and profitability as larger customers may realize benefits of scale with increased buying power and reduced inventories. The economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. These factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 9. If the availability of raw materials or energy decreases, or the costs increase, and we are unable to pass along increased costs, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be adversely affected.. The availability and cost of raw materials, packaging materials, energy and sourced products are critical to our operations.  For example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas and petroleum-based raw materials in our manufacturing operations.  The cost of some of these items has been volatile in recent years and availability has been limited at times.  We source some materials from a limited number of suppliers, which, among other things, increases the risk of unavailability.  Limited availability could cause us to reformulate products or limit our production.  Decreased access to raw materials and energy or significant increased cost to purchase these items and any corresponding inability to pass along such costs through price increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. The performance of our WAVE joint venture is important to our financial results.  Changes in the demand for, or quality of, WAVE products, or in the operational or financial performance of the WAVE joint venture, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.  Similarly, if there is a change with respect to our joint venture partner that adversely impacts its relationship with us, WAVE's performance could be adversely impacted.. Our equity investment in our WAVE joint venture remains important to our financial results.  We believe an important element in the success of this joint venture is the relationship with our partner, Worthington Industries, Inc.  If there is a change in ownership, a change of control, a change in management or management philosophy, a change in business strategy or another event with respect to our partner that adversely impacts our relationship, WAVE's performance could be adversely impacted.  In addition, our partner may have economic or business interests or goals that are different from or inconsistent with our interests or goals, which may impact our ability to influence or align WAVE's strategy and operations.. We may be subject to liability under, and may make substantial future expenditures to comply with, environmental laws and regulations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We are actively involved in environmental investigation and remediation activities relating to several domestically owned, formerly owned and non-owned locations allegedly resulting from past industrial activity, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the currently estimated and accrued amounts.  See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our current environmental matters and the potential liabilities associated therewith. It is also possible that we could become subject to additional environmental matters and corresponding liabilities in the future.. The building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to raw materials such as silicates, polychlorinated biphenyl (\"PCB\"), PVC, formaldehyde, fire-retardants and claims relating to other issues such as mold and toxic fumes, as well as claims for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires.  We have not received any significant claims involving our raw materials or our product performance; however, product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances to cover claims that may arise in the future.. In addition, our operations are subject to various environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations.  Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. The agreements that govern our indebtedness contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests.. The agreements that govern our indebtedness include covenants that, among other things, may impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best long-term interests.  These covenants may restrict our ability to:. •  incur additional debt;. •  pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt or make certain other restricted payments;. •  make certain acquisitions;. •  sell certain assets;. •  consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. •  create liens on certain assets to secure debt.. 10. Under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain specified leverage and interest coverage ratios.  Our ability to meet these ratios could be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet them.  A breach of any of the restrictive covenants or ratios would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility.  If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may be able to elect to declare all outstanding borrowings under our facilities, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest.  The lenders may also have the right in these circumstances to terminate commitments to provide further borrowings.. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, make payments on our indebtedness and declare dividends on our capital stock.. Our level of indebtedness and degree of leverage could:. •  make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. •  make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, more able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting;. •  limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;. •  restrict our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock; and. •  adversely affect our credit ratings.. We may also incur additional indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks described above.  In addition, to the extent that our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations will increase.. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We require a significant amount of liquidity to fund our operations, and borrowing has increased our vulnerability to negative unforeseen events.. Our liquidity needs vary throughout the year.  If our business experiences materially negative unforeseen events, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our needs or maintain sufficient liquidity to operate and remain in compliance with our debt covenants, which could result in reduced or delayed planned capital expenditures and other investments and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations in both established and emerging markets. Legislative, political, regulatory and economic volatility, as well as vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. On November 20, 2017, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement with Knauf to sell our EMEA and Pacific Rim businesses. This transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions, is currently anticipated to close in mid-2018.. A significant portion of our products move in international trade.  See Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  Our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs, delays and other related risks.  Our international operations are also subject to various tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, uncertain legal systems, high costs in repatriating profits to the United States from some countries, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale.  In addition, our international growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to expand our operations in certain emerging markets.  However, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets.  Similarly, our efforts to enhance the profitability or accelerate the growth of our operations in certain markets depends largely on the economic and geopolitical conditions in those local or regional markets.. In addition, in many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or. 11. similar local anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws.  These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Failure to comply with these laws, as well as U.S. and foreign export and trading laws, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties.  As we continue to expand our business, we may have difficulty anticipating and effectively managing these and other risks that our operations may face, which may adversely affect our business outside the United States and our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We may pursue strategic transactions that could create risks and present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, potential strategic transactions as opportunities arise.  We routinely engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential transactions, including joint ventures, which could be significant.  Any such strategic transaction involves a number of risks, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and business operations and infrastructure, and increasing or decreasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations.  Strategic transactions could involve payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, assumption of liabilities and indemnification obligations, regulatory requirements, incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or issuance of a substantial amount of equity.  Certain strategic opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction or may fail to realize the intended benefits and synergies.  If we fail to consummate and integrate our strategic transactions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected.. Negative tax consequences can have an unanticipated effect on our financial results.. We are subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  The tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our operations and results is sometimes open to interpretation.  Because our income tax expense for any period depends heavily on the mix of income derived from the various taxing jurisdictions, our income tax expense and reported net income may fluctuate significantly, and may be materially different than forecasted or experienced in the past.  Our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures.. Our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or tax liability could also be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. We have substantial deferred tax assets related to U.S. domestic foreign tax credits, or FTCs, and state net operating losses, or NOLs, which are available to reduce our U.S. income tax liability and to offset future state taxable income.  However, our ability to utilize the current carrying value of these deferred tax assets may be impacted as a result of certain future events, such as changes in tax legislation and insufficient future taxable income prior to expiration of the FTCs and NOLs.. If the separation and distribution of Armstrong Flooring, Inc. (\"AFI\") fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then AFI, AWI and AWI's shareholders could be subject to significant tax liability or tax indemnity obligations.. On April 1, 2016, we completed our previously announced separation of AFI by allocating the assets and liabilities related primarily to the Resilient Flooring and Wood Flooring segments to AFI and then distributing the common stock of AFI to our shareholders at a ratio of one share of AFI common stock for every two shares of AWI common stock.  In connection with the distribution, we received an opinion from our special tax counsel, on the basis of certain facts, representations, covenants and assumptions set forth in such opinion, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the separation and distribution should qualify as a transaction that generally is tax-free to us and our shareholders under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code.. Notwithstanding the tax opinion, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could determine on audit that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or covenants set forth in the tax opinion is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution, or if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinion. If the distribution is ultimately determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend to each U.S. holder of our common shares who receives shares of AFI in connection with the spinoff for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, we and/or AFI could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities or tax indemnification obligations, whether under applicable law or the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with AFI, if it is ultimately determined that certain related transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable.. 12. Significant changes in factors and assumptions used to measure our defined benefit plan obligations, actual investment returns on pension assets and other factors could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows.. We maintain pension and postretirement plans throughout the world, with the most significant plans located in the U.S.  The recognition of costs and liabilities associated with these plans for financial reporting purposes is affected by assumptions made by management and used by actuaries engaged by us to calculate the benefit obligations and the expenses recognized for these plans.. The inputs used in developing the required estimates are calculated using a number of assumptions, which represent management's best estimate of the future.  The assumptions that have the most significant impact on reported results are the discount rate, the estimated long-term return on plan assets for the funded plans, retirement rates, and mortality rates and, for postretirement plans, the estimated inflation in health care costs.  These assumptions are generally updated annually.. Our U.S. pension plans were overfunded by $29.6 million as of December 31, 2017.  Our unfunded U.S. postretirement plan liabilities were $86.6 million as of December 31, 2017.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our pension and postretirement plans obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.. A disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations.. In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems, which are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cyber security risks. Any security breach or compromise of our information systems could significantly damage our reputation, cause the disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, including our intellectual property, and result in significant losses, litigation, fines and costs. The security measures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to our information systems and data may not be sufficient to prevent breaches. The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is evolving, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.. We also compete through our use and improvement of information technology. In order to remain competitive, we need to provide customers with timely, accurate, easy-to-access information about product availability, orders and delivery status using state-of-the-art systems. While we have processes for short-term failures and disaster recovery capability, a prolonged disruption of systems or other failure to meet customers' expectations regarding the capabilities and reliability of our systems may materially and adversely affect our operating results.. Adverse judgments in regulatory actions, product claims, environmental claims and other litigation could be costly.  Insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation.  Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources.  While we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet warranty or contractual requirements, and users could claim to be harmed by use or misuse of our products.  These claims could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage.  They could also result in negative publicity.. In addition, claims and investigations may arise related to patent infringement, distributor relationships, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law requirements, employment matters, employee benefits issues, and other compliance and regulatory matters, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters.  While we have processes and policies designed to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict or, in some cases, control the costs to defend or resolve such claims.. We currently maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels.  In addition, the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities.  If any significant judgment or claim is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact. We cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. 13. Increased costs of labor, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Increased costs of labor, including the costs of employee benefits plans, labor disputes, work stoppages or union organizing activity could delay or impede production and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.  As the majority of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, we often incur costs attributable to periodic renegotiation of those agreements, which may be difficult to project.  We are also subject to the risk that strikes or other conflicts with organized personnel may arise or that we may become the subject of union organizing activity at our facilities that do not currently have union representation.  Prolonged negotiations, conflicts or related activities could also lead to costly work stoppages and loss of productivity.. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products or brands, which could adversely impact our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. We rely on our proprietary intellectual property, including numerous patents and registered trademarks, as well as our licensed intellectual property to market, promote and sell our products.  We monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the patent, trademark and other laws of the U.S. and other countries.  However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization.  In addition, the laws of some non-U.S. jurisdictions, particularly those of certain emerging markets, provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the U.S. and present greater risks of counterfeiting and other infringement.  To the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. Our cost-saving and productivity initiatives may not achieve expected savings in our operating costs or improved operating results.. We aggressively look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective.  We reduce, move, modify and expand our plants and operations, as well as our sourcing and supply chain arrangements, as needed, to control costs and improve productivity.  Such actions involve substantial planning, often require capital investments and may result in charges for fixed asset impairments or obsolescence and substantial severance costs.  Our ability to achieve cost savings and other benefits within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions.  These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control.  If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected."
