[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time.. Business-Related Risks. We have had a history of losses and may incur future losses.. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $181.6 million. In an effort to reduce operating expenses and maximize available resources, we have consolidated certain of our subsidiaries, shifted personnel and reassigned responsibilities. We have also taken a variety of other measures to limit spending and will continue to assess our internal processes to seek additional cost-structure improvements. Although we believe that such steps have helped to reduce our operating expenses and maximize our available resources and enabled us to operate at a net profit in the recent past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability consistently or that our business will continue to exist.. Our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in a default that could have material adverse consequences for us.. Our bank and other indebtedness (short and long term) totaled approximately $15.9 million as of December 31, 2017 (not including trade payables, other account payables, and accrued severance pay), of which $5.1 million was bank working capital lines of credit and approximately $7.7 million represents a term loan entered into to fund the UEC acquisition and a $3.1 million mortgage on our property owned in Ann Arbor, Michigan. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with significant indebtedness, including:. <U+25CF>  we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal and interest and, as a result, we may have less funds available for operations and other purposes;. <U+25CF>  it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all;. <U+25CF>  we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and. <U+25CF>  if we default under any of our existing debt instruments, including paying the outstanding principal when due, and if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments.. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price.. Furthermore, a failure to comply with the obligations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under such agreements which could result in an acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our future cash flow or assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. In the past, we have received waivers that enabled us to avoid covenant violations that could have triggered a default on our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that any similar waivers will, if needed, be granted in the future.. We may not be successful in operating our electronics engineering and design services for the military business, which is a relatively new business for us.. The business of electronics engineering and design services for the military is a relatively new business for us and our management group has limited experience operating this particular type of business. We cannot assure that we will be successful in managing this new business. If we are unable to successfully operate this new business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired.. 9. Table of Contents. We may consider acquisitions in the future to grow our business, and such activity could subject us to various risks.. We may consider acquiring companies that will complement our existing operations or provide us with an entry into markets we do not currently serve. Growth through acquisitions involves substantial risks, including the risk of improper valuation of the acquired business and the risk of inadequate integration. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition candidates will be available, that we will be able to acquire or manage profitably such additional companies or that future acquisitions will produce returns that justify our investments in such companies. In addition, we may compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Furthermore, acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract the attention of our senior officers, increase our expenses, make it difficult to maintain our operational standards, controls and procedures and subject us to contingent and latent risks that are different, in nature and magnitude, than the risks we currently face.. We may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations or additional debt or equity financings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate internal cash or obtain financing from external sources or that, if available, such financing will be on terms acceptable to us. The issuance of additional common stock to finance acquisitions may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financing may significantly increase our leverage and may involve restrictive covenants which limit our operations.. If we are successful in acquiring additional businesses, we may experience a period of rapid growth that could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and management information systems. Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our earnings may decline if we write off goodwill and other intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded goodwill of $46.1 million. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may have a significant impact on earnings. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in legal factors or the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, a sustained decline in our market capitalization, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, and lowered expectations of future financial results.. Significant judgments inherent in these analyses include assumptions about appropriate sales growth rates, weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the amount of expected future net cash flows. The judgments and assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. The determination of fair value is highly sensitive to differences between estimated and actual cash flows and changes in the related discount rate used to evaluate the fair value of the reporting units and trade name.. The goodwill of our Training and Simulation Division equaled $24.4 million and the goodwill of our Power Systems Division equaled $21.7 million at December 31, 2017. Based on the discounted cash flow valuation at December 31, 2017, an increase in the WACC or changes in other significant variables for the Power Systems Division could potentially result in impairment.. Some of the components of our products pose potential safety risks which could create potential liability exposure for us.. Some of the components of our products contain elements that are known to pose potential safety risks. In addition to these risks, there can be no assurance that accidents in our facilities will not occur. Any accident, whether occasioned by the use of all or any part of our products or technology or by our manufacturing operations, could adversely affect commercial acceptance of our products and could result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. Any of these occurrences would materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In the event that our products fail to perform as specified, users of these products may assert claims for substantial amounts. These claims could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the amount of the general product liability insurance that we maintain will be sufficient to cover potential claims or that the present amount of insurance can be maintained at the present level of cost, or at all.. 10. Table of Contents. Our business is dependent on proprietary rights that may be difficult to protect and could affect our ability to compete effectively.. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and manufacturing processes through a combination of patent and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements.. Litigation, or participation in administrative proceedings, may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could divert company resources and management attention to defend our rights, and this could harm us even if we were to be successful in the litigation and there is no guarantee we would be successful in such litigation. In the absence of patent protection, and despite our reliance upon our proprietary confidential information, our competitors may be able to use innovations similar to those used by us to design and manufacture products directly competitive with our products. In addition, no assurance can be given that others will not obtain patents that we will need to license or design around. To the extent any of our products are covered by third-party patents, we could need to acquire a license under such patents to develop and market our products.. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, competition is intense, and there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In the event of patent litigation, we cannot assure you that a court would determine that we were the first creator of inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for those inventions. If existing or future third-party patents containing broad claims were upheld by the courts or if we were found to infringe third-party patents, we may not be able to obtain the required licenses from the holders of such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain these licenses could cause delays in the introduction of our products or necessitate costly attempts to design around such patents, or could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in patent infringement suits brought by others and in prosecuting patent infringement suits against infringers.. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our customers, employees, consultants, and entities with which we maintain strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.. Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks and other security breaches.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, in our data centers and on our networks. As part of our business, we may face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information. Cybersecurity threats could evolve quickly and include, but not be limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information and other electronic security breaches. Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. In addition, our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business generally face similar security threats, and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these parties to protect against security threats. We believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. However, such actions may not be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity breaches, disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of sensitive information or corruption of data, or harm to facilities or personnel.. In addition, as a provider of products and services to government and commercial customers, our products and services may be the targets of cyber attacks that attempt to sabotage or otherwise disable such products and services, or our cybersecurity and other products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against or otherwise mitigate losses from all cyber attacks. Furthermore, as a defense contractor with a security clearance we would be obligated to notify the Department of Defense of certain penetrations of protected networks.. The impact of these security threats and other disruptions, including cyber attacks and other security breaches, is difficult to predict. However, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant and our insurance coverage may not cover all related costs. These threats and other events could also disrupt our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties, could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, any one of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 11. Table of Contents. There are risks involved with the international nature of our business.. A significant portion of our sales are made to customers located outside the U.S., primarily in Europe and Asia. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, 27.5%, 21.9%, and 19.5%, respectively, of our revenues, were derived from sales to customers located outside the U.S. We expect that our international customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. Sales to international customers may be subject to political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, foreign taxes, longer payment cycles and changes in import/export regulations and tariff rates. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation have been and in the future may be proposed in the U.S. and certain other countries. Any resulting changes in current tariff structures or other trade and monetary policies could adversely affect our sales to international customers. See also \"Israel-Related Risks,\" below.. Risks Related to Government Contracts. A significant portion of our business is dependent on government contracts and reduction or reallocation of defense or law enforcement spending could reduce our revenues.. Most of our customers to date have been in the public sector of the U.S., including the federal, state, and local governments and the military, and in the public sectors of a number of other countries. A significant decrease in the overall level or allocation of defense or law enforcement spending in the U.S. or other countries could reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition.. Sales to public sector customers are subject to a multiplicity of detailed regulatory requirements and public policies as well as to changes in training and purchasing priorities. Contracts with public sector customers may be conditioned upon the continuing availability of public funds, which in turn depends upon lengthy and complex budgetary procedures, and may be subject to certain pricing constraints. Moreover, U.S. government contracts and those of many international government customers may generally be terminated for a variety of factors when it is in the best interests of the government and contractors may be suspended or debarred for misconduct at the discretion of the government. There can be no assurance that these factors or others unique to government contracts or the loss or suspension of necessary regulatory licenses will not reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition.. A decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in budgetary priorities or timing of contract awards may adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects.. Revenues under contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense (\"DoD\"), either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors, represent a substantial portion of our total revenues. Our operating results could be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government or the DoD, as well as delays in program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts.. An impasse in federal budget decision-making could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. For example, as a result of inability of the U.S. Government to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, sequestration triggered substantial automatic spending reductions beginning in January 2013, divided between defense and domestic spending over a nine-year period. As a result, U.S. government funding for certain of our customers may be reduced, delayed or eliminated, which could significantly impact these customers' demand for our products and services and if so would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. While the future impact of sequestration is uncertain, these automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration could have significant negative consequences to our business and industry.. In years when Congress does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations are funded through a continuing resolution (CR) that temporarily funds federal agencies. Recent CRs have generally provided funding at the levels provided in the previous fiscal year and have not authorized new spending initiatives. When the federal government operates under a CR, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. Historically, such delays have not had a material effect on our business; however, should sequestration not be alleviated, it could continue to have significant consequences to our business and our industry.. Additionally, our business could be affected if the demand for and priority of funding for combat operations overseas decreases, which may reduce the demand for our services on contracts supporting some operations and maintenance activities in the Department of Defense or if we experience an increase in set-asides for small businesses, which could result in our inability to compete directly for prime contracts.. 12. Table of Contents. Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.. The U.S. government, and other governments, typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders. Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials.. Government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor's performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If we are audited, we will not be reimbursed for any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract, while we would be required to refund any improper costs for which we had already been reimbursed. Therefore, an audit could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with United States government agencies. We could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. A governmental determination of impropriety or illegality, or an allegation of impropriety, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be liable for penalties under a variety of procurement rules and regulations, and changes in government regulations could adversely impact our revenues, operating expenses and profitability.. Our defense and commercial businesses must comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and our internal organization and operation of our businesses. Among the most significant regulations are the following:. <U+25CF>  the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts;. <U+25CF>  the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and. <U+25CF>  the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts.. These regulations affect how we and our customers do business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our businesses. Any changes in applicable laws could adversely affect the financial performance of the business affected by the changed regulations. With respect to U.S. government contracts, any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government.. We may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required for us to export or re-export our products, technical data or services, or to transfer technology from foreign sources (including our own subsidiaries) and to work collaboratively with them. Denials of such licenses and authorizations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. U.S. regulations concerning export controls require us to screen potential customers, destinations, and technology to ensure that sensitive equipment, technology and services are not exported in violation of U.S. policy or diverted to improper uses or users.. In order for us to export certain products, technical data or services, we are required to obtain licenses from the U.S. government, often on a transaction-by-transaction basis. These licenses are generally required for the export of the military versions of our products and technical data and for defense services. We cannot be sure of our ability to obtain the U.S. government licenses or other approvals required to export our products, technical data and services for sales to foreign governments, foreign commercial customers or foreign destinations.. In addition, in order for us to obtain certain technical know-how from foreign vendors and to collaborate on improvements on such technology with foreign vendors, including at times our own foreign subsidiaries, we may need to obtain U.S. government approval for such collaboration through manufacturing license or technical assistance agreements approved by U.S. government export control agencies.. The U.S. government has the right, without notice, to revoke or suspend export licenses and authorizations for reasons of foreign policy, issues over which we have no control.. 13. Table of Contents. Failure to receive required licenses or authorizations would hinder our ability to export our products, data and services and to use some advanced technology from foreign sources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our failure to comply with export control rules could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to comply with the export control rules described above rules could expose us to significant criminal or civil enforcement action by the U.S. government, and a conviction could result in denial of export privileges, as well as contractual suspension or debarment under U.S. government contracts, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating margins may decline under our fixed-price contracts if we fail to estimate accurately the time and resources necessary to satisfy our obligations.. Some of our contracts are fixed-price contracts under which we bear the risk of any cost overruns. Our profits are adversely affected if our costs under these contracts exceed the assumptions that we used in bidding for the contract. Often, we are required to fix the price for a contract before we finalize the project specifications, which increases the risk that we will misprice these contracts. The complexity of many of our engagements makes accurately estimating our time and resources more difficult. In the event we fail to estimate our time and resources accurately, our expenses will increase and our profitability, if any, under such contracts will decrease.. If we are unable to retain our contracts with the U.S. government and subcontracts under U.S. government prime contracts in the competitive rebidding process, our revenues may suffer.. Upon expiration of a U.S. government contract or subcontract under a U.S. government prime contract, if the government customer requires further services of the type provided in the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. We cannot guarantee that we, or if we are a subcontractor that the prime contractor, will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. Further, all U.S. government contracts are subject to protest by competitors. The termination or nonrenewal of several of our significant contracts could result in considerable revenue shortfalls.. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, U.S. military business would have a material adverse effect on us.. U.S. military contracts account for a significant portion of our business. The U.S. military funds these contracts in annual increments. These contracts require subsequent authorization and appropriation that may not occur or that may be greater than or less than the total amount of the contract. Changes in the U.S. military's budget, spending allocations and the timing of such spending could adversely affect our ability to receive future contracts. None of our contracts with the U.S. military has a minimum purchase commitment, and the U.S. military generally has the right to cancel its contracts unilaterally without prior notice. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, U.S. military business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Market-Related Risks. The price of our common stock is volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may change rapidly in the future. The following factors, among others, may cause significant volatility in our stock price:. <U+25CF>  announcements by us, our competitors, or our customers;. <U+25CF>  the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by us or our competitors;. <U+25CF>  changes in the perceived ability to commercialize our technology compared to that of our competitors;. <U+25CF>  rumors relating to our competitors or us;. <U+25CF>  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. <U+25CF>  the issuance of our securities, including warrants, in connection with financings and acquisitions; and. <U+25CF>  general market or economic conditions.. 14. Table of Contents. If our shares were to be delisted, our stock price might decline further and we might be unable to raise additional capital.. There can be no assurance that our common stock will remain listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. While our stock would continue to trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board following any delisting from the Nasdaq, any such delisting of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock. Trading volume of over-the-counter bulletin board stocks has been historically lower and more volatile than stocks traded on an exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market. As a result, holders of our securities could find it more difficult to sell their securities. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, any delisting could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public equity markets.. In addition, if we fail to maintain Nasdaq listing for our securities, and no other exclusion from the definition of a \"penny stock\" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is available, then any broker engaging in a transaction in our securities would be required to provide any customer with a risk disclosure document, disclosure of market quotations, if any, disclosure of the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market values of our securities held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotation and compensation information must be provided prior to effecting the transaction and must be contained on the customer's confirmation. If brokers become subject to the \"penny stock\" rules when engaging in transactions in our securities, they would become less willing to engage in transactions, thereby making it more difficult for our stockholders to dispose of their shares.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. During the course of testing our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may identify and disclose material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that will have to be remedied. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal control may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy or inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could result in our financial statements being unreliable, increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Additionally, failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in government investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities.. In addition, due to increased regulatory scrutiny surrounding publicly traded companies, the possibility exists that a restatement of past financial results could be necessitated by an alternative interpretation of present accounting guidance and practice. Although management does not currently anticipate that this will occur, a potential result of such interpretation could be costly and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Compliance with public company obligations, including the securities laws and regulations, is costly and requires significant management resources, and we may fail to comply. We are an \"accelerated filer,\" and as a result are subject to more comprehensive disclosure obligations, with increased compliance costs.. The federal securities laws and regulations, including the corporate governance and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, impose complex and continually changing regulatory requirements on our operations and reporting. Our legal compliance obligations and costs could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations.. Relatively speaking, we are a small company with limited resources. There can be no assurances that we will continue to be able to comply with the various securities laws requirements by applicable deadlines. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for future year ends, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends.. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, as a result, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our ability to declare dividends, should we decide to do so, is restricted by the terms of our debt agreements.. 15. Table of Contents. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions:. <U+25CF>  divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;. <U+25CF>  only permit removal of directors by stockholders \"for cause,\" and require the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the outstanding common stock to so remove; and. <U+25CF>  allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders.. The classification system of electing directors and the removal provision may tend to discourage a third-party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us and may maintain the incumbency of our board of directors, as the classification of the board of directors increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors. These provisions may have the effect of deferring hostile takeovers, delaying changes in our control or management or may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions. The amendment of any of these provisions would require approval by holders of at least 85% of the outstanding common stock.. Israel-Related Risks. A significant portion of our operations takes place in Israel, and we could be adversely affected by the economic, political and military conditions in that region.. The offices and facilities of Epsilor-EFL are located in Israel (in Beit Shemesh, Dimona, and Sderot, all of which are within Israel's pre-1967 borders). Although we expect that most of our sales will continue to be made to customers outside Israel, we are nonetheless directly affected by economic, political and military conditions in that country. Accordingly, any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel.. Israel withdrew unilaterally from the Gaza Strip and certain areas in northern Samaria in 2005. Thereafter Hamas, an Islamist terrorist group responsible for many attacks, including missile strikes against Israeli civilian targets, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip, by force, in June 2007. Since then, Hamas and other Palestinian movements have launched thousands of missiles from the Gaza strip into civilian targets in southern Israel.. Our Israeli production facilities in the cities of Beit Shemesh and Dimona, are located approximately 27 miles and 38 miles, respectively, from the nearest point of the border with the Gaza Strip. We also have a small production facility in Sderot, which is located 0.6 miles from the nearest point of the border with the Gaza Strip. There can be no assurance that Hamas will not begin to use on a more frequent basis longer-range missiles capable of reaching our facilities, which could result in a significant disruption of the Israel-based portion of our business. Additionally, recent political events, including political uprisings, social unrest and regime change, in various countries in the Middle East and North Africa have weakened the stability of those countries, which could result in extremists coming to power, including in countries with which Israel has signed peace treaties that may not be respected by extremists. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel, and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. These situations may potentially escalate in the future to more violent events which may affect Israel and us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, including as a result of the military conflicts between the Fatah and Hamas in Gaza Strip, Judea and Samaria, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Enforcement of civil liabilities against our Israeli assets may be difficult to obtain.. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and will be subject to service of process in the United States. However, approximately 24% of our assets are located outside the United States.. 16. Table of Contents. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in original actions instituted in Israel. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. laws against our assets located in Israel. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the U.S. or elsewhere may be unenforceable in Israel.. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Israeli NIS may negatively affect our earnings.. Although a substantial majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs, including personnel and facilities-related expenses, is incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). Inflation in Israel will have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Israel, unless it is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS relative to the dollar. In 2017, the inflation-adjusted NIS appreciated against the dollar."
