[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in other reports we file with the SEC, the following factors could cause our actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may impair our business and operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks occur, it could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as cause the value of our common stock to decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are largely dependent on the commercial success of BRAFTOVI (ENCORAFENIB) + MEKTOVI (BINIMETINIB) in the U.S. for the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee when, or if, we will attain profitability or positive cash flows.. The commercial success of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of BRAFTOVI capsules in combination with MEKTOVI tablets as a treatment for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation; the size of the treatable patient population; the effectiveness of the sales, managed markets and marketing efforts by us; the adoption of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI by physicians, which depends on whether physicians view it as a safe and effective treatment for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation; our success in educating and activating patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation to enable them to more effectively communicate their symptoms and treatment history to their physicians; our ability to both secure and maintain adequate reimbursement for, and optimize patient access to, BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI by providing third party payers with a strong value proposition based on the existing burden of illness associated with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation and the benefits of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI; the effectiveness of our partners' distribution networks; the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas, associated with BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI; and the development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation, or their associated symptoms.. Our revenues from the commercialization of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI are subject to these factors, and therefore may be unpredictable from quarter-to-quarter. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI to reach or maintain profitability or to sustain our anticipated levels of operations.. BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could limit its commercial potential.. The most common adverse reactions in the Phase 3 COLUMBUS trial for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI were fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, arthralgia, myopathy, hyperkeratosis, rash, headache, constipation, visual impairment, serous retinopathy. In the Phase 3 COLUMBUS trial, the most common laboratory abnormalities included increased creatinine, increased CPK, increased gamma glutamyl transferase, anemia, increased ALT, hyperglycemia, increased AST, and increased alkaline phosphatase. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI or any products perceived to be similar to BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI, or if any of the foregoing are perceived to have occurred, then in any of these circumstances, sales of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI may be impaired; regulatory approvals for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI may be denied, restricted or withdrawn; we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; reformulation of the product, additional nonclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or reapprovals of manufacturing facilities may be required; we may be precluded from pursuing additional development opportunities to enhance the clinical profile of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI within its indicated populations, as well as be precluded from studying BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI in additional indications, populations and formulations; our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and government investigations or lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us.. 32. Table of Contents. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI, increase our expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI. Furthermore, as we explore development opportunities to enhance the clinical profile of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI through additional clinical trials, the number of patients treated with BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI within and outside of its current indications or patient populations may expand, which could result in the identification of previously unknown side effects, increased frequency or severity of known side effects, or detection of unexpected safety signals. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is associated with serious adverse effects, undermining our commercialization efforts.. We require additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which may force us to delay, curtail or eliminate commercialization efforts of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. During the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, net cash flow used in operations was approximately $119.8 million and $39.4 million, respectively. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on product development and commercialization activities, including the commercialization of our recently FDA-approved BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and achieve profitability, we expect to seek to finance future cash needs through equity or debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. In addition, we may seek other alternatives to maximize the value of our intellectual property, to focus more on, and finance, our medical applications. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we will have to delay, curtail or eliminate the commercialization of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI, our efforts to obtain FDA approval of our other drug products and/or our product development and other commercialization efforts.. We are highly dependent on the commercial success of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI in the U.S.; we may not be able to meet expectations with respect to BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI sales or attain profitability and positive cash-flow from operations.. On June 27, 2018, the FDA granted approval for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation. BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is commercially available. The commercial success of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to the effectiveness of our sales, managed markets and marketing efforts; the effectiveness of our commercialization activities, including negotiating and entering into any additional commercial and supply contracts, scaling up manufacturing and hiring any additional personnel; FDA-mandated package insert requirements and the time it would take us to comply with any related FDA post-marketing requirements and commitments; demonstration and/or confirmation of clinical efficacy and safety and acceptance of the same by the medical community; the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas; whether BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI can consistently be manufactured in commercial quantities and at acceptable costs; the cost-effectiveness of the product; the adoption of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI by physicians, which depends on whether physicians view it as a safe and effective treatment for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation; adequate reimbursement by third parties, including government payors, managed care organizations and private health insurers; our ability to comply with the FDA requirements, and achieve the required clinical endpoints in the studies included in the BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI approval letter; the need for, and success of, other confirmatory trials and post-marketing requirements; the development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation, or its symptoms; marketing and distribution support for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI; our ability to remain compliant with laws and regulations that apply to us and our commercial activities; the actual market-size for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI, which may be different than expected; the sufficiency of our drug supply to meet commercial and clinical demands which could be negatively impacted if our projections on the potential number of amenable patients are inaccurate, we are subject to unanticipated regulatory requirements that increase our drug supply needs, our current drug supply is destroyed or negatively impacted at our manufacturing sites, storage sites or in transit, or it takes longer than we project for the number of patients we anticipate to get on BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI and any significant portion of our BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI supply expires before we are able to sell it; our ability to obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI in markets outside of the U.S.; and the awareness of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation and whether the mutation is amenable to BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI.. 33. Table of Contents. Our prospects are highly dependent on the successful commercialization of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI. To the extent BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is our only drug that has been approved for sale and it has only been approved for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation in the United States. We are focusing a significant portion of our activities and resources on BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI, and we believe our prospects are highly dependent on, and a significant portion of the value of our company relates to, our ability to successfully commercialize BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI in the United States.. Successful commercialization of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is subject to many risks. We have never, as an organization, commercialized a product, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so successfully with BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI for its approved indication. There are numerous examples of failures to meet high expectations of market potential, including by pharmaceutical companies with more experience and resources than us.. Market acceptance of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI and any other product for which we receive approval, will depend on a number of factors, including the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; the timing of market introduction of the product as well as competitive products; the clinical indications for which the product is approved; acceptance by physicians, the medical community and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment; the ability to distinguish safety and efficacy from existing, less expensive generic alternative therapies; the convenience of prescribing, administrating and initiating patients on the product; the potential and perceived advantages of the product over alternative treatments; the potential and perceived value of the product over alternative treatments; the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including any similar generic treatments; the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payers and government authorities; the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.. The FDA granted marketing approval of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAFV600E or BRAFV600K mutation, and we could face liability if a regulatory authority determines that we are promoting BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI for any off-label uses.. A company may not promote \"off-label\" uses for its drug products. An off-label use is the use of a product for an indication that is not described in the product's FDA-approved label in the United States or for uses in other jurisdictions that differ from those approved by the applicable regulatory agencies. Physicians, on the other hand, may prescribe products for off-label uses. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of drug treatment made in the physician's independent medical judgment, they do restrict promotional communications from pharmaceutical companies or their sales force with respect to off-label uses of products for which marketing clearance has not been issued. A company that is found to have promoted off-label use of its product may be subject to significant liability, including civil and criminal sanctions.. We intend to comply with the requirements and restrictions of the FDA and other regulatory agencies with respect to our promotion of BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI and any future products, but we cannot be sure that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will agree that we have not violated their restrictions. For example, as part of our promotion strategy for BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI we communicate certain results from our Phase 3 COLUMBUS trial and other clinical data that are consistent with, but not directly included in, the product label. While we believe our communication of this data is in accordance with FDA guidance and applicable laws, we cannot be certain that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will agree with our use of this data or our sales force may use such data in a way that is inconsistent with our policies. As a result, we may be subject to criminal and civil liability. In addition, our management's attention could be diverted to handle any such alleged violations. A significant number of pharmaceutical companies have been the target of inquiries and investigations by various U.S. federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses and other sales practices, including the Department of Justice and various U.S. Attorneys' Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and various state Attorneys General offices. These investigations have alleged violations of various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, including claims asserting antitrust violations, violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, the federal False Claims Act, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, anti-kickback laws, and other alleged violations in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses, pricing and Medicare and/or Medicaid. 34. Table of Contents. reimbursement. If the FDA or any other governmental agency initiates an enforcement action against us or if we are the subject of a qui tam suit and it is determined that we violated prohibitions relating to the promotion of products for unapproved uses, we could be subject to substantial civil or criminal fines or damage awards and other sanctions such as consent decrees and corporate integrity agreements pursuant to which our activities would be subject to ongoing scrutiny and monitoring to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any such fines, awards or other sanctions would have an adverse effect on our revenue, business, financial prospects and reputation.. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We intend to engage in medical education activities and communicate with healthcare providers in compliance with all applicable laws, regulatory guidance and industry best practices. Although we have established a compliance program and continue to enhance it to ensure that all such activities are performed in a legal and compliant manner, BRAFTOVI + MEKTOVI is our first commercial product which could increase risk of non-compliance with our internal compliance policies and applicable rules and regulations, which could negatively impact our business.. If we need but are unable to obtain additional funding to support our operations, we could be required to reduce our research and development activities or curtail our operations and it may lead to uncertainty about our ability to continue to operate as a going concern.. We have expended substantial funds to discover and develop our drug candidates and additional substantial funds will be required for further development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, of any product candidates we develop internally and to build our commercialization capabilities. Additional funds will be required to manufacture and market any products we own or retain rights to that are approved for commercial sale. Because the successful development of our products is uncertain, we are unable to precisely estimate the actual funds we will require to develop and potentially commercialize them.. We have historically funded our operations from up-front fees and license and milestone payments received under our drug collaborations and license agreements, the sale of equity securities, and debt provided by convertible debt and other credit facilities. Management believes that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30, 2018 will enable us to continue to fund operations in the normal course of business for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Until we can generate sufficient levels of cash from current operations, which we do not expect to achieve in the foreseeable future, and because sufficient funds may not be available to us when needed from existing collaborations, we expect that we will be required to continue to fund our operations in part through the sale of debt or equity securities and through licensing select programs that include up-front and/or milestone payments. Our ability to obtain additional funding when needed, changes to our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our planned research and development activities or expenditures, increased expenses or other events may affect our need for additional capital in the future and may require us to seek additional funding sooner than anticipated.. Our ability to successfully raise sufficient funds through the sale of debt or equity securities or from debt financing from lenders when needed is subject to many risks and uncertainties and, even if we are successful, future equity issuances would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We also may not successfully consummate new collaboration or license agreements that provide for up-front fees or milestone payments, or we may not earn milestone payments under such agreements when anticipated, or at all. Our ability to realize milestone or royalty payments under existing agreements and to enter into new arrangements that generate additional revenue through up-front fees and milestone or royalty payments is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate enough revenue from our existing or new collaborations when needed or secure additional sources of funding, it may be necessary to significantly reduce our current rate of spending through further reductions in staff and delaying, scaling back or stopping certain research and development programs, including more costly late stage clinical trials on our wholly-owned or co-development programs as these programs progress into later stage development. These events may result in an inability to maintain a level of liquidity necessary to continue operating our business and the loss of all or a part of the investment of our stockholders in our common stock and may result in a reduction in the value of our 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024. In addition, if we are unable to maintain certain levels of cash and marketable securities, our obligations under our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank may be accelerated.. 35. Table of Contents. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability.. We have incurred significant operating and net losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of June 30, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.1 billion. We expect to incur additional losses and negative cash flows in the future, and these losses may continue or increase in part due to anticipated levels of expenses for research and development, particularly clinical development and expansion of our clinical and scientific capabilities to support ongoing development of our programs. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. We may not receive royalty or milestone revenue under our collaboration and license agreements for several years, or at all.. Much of our current revenue is non-recurring in nature and unpredictable as to timing and amount. Several of our collaboration and license agreements provide for payments on achievement of development or commercialization milestones and for royalties on product sales. However, many of our drug candidates are at early stages of development and drug development entails a high risk of failure, we may never realize much of the milestone revenue provided for in our collaboration and license agreements and we do not expect to receive any royalty revenue for several years, if at all. Similarly, drugs we select to commercialize ourselves or partner for later stage co-development and commercialization may not generate revenue for several years, or at all.. We or our partners may choose not to commercialize a drug candidate at any time during development, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on investment for that drug.. At any time, we or our partners may decide to discontinue the development of a drug candidate or not to commercialize a candidate. If we terminate a program in which we have invested significant resources, we will not receive any return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. If one of our partners terminates a program, we will not receive any future milestone payments or royalties relating to that program under our agreement with that party. Physicians or consumers may not find that our drug candidates' effectiveness, ease of use, side-effect profile, cost or other factors make them effective in treating disease or more beneficial than, or preferable to, other drugs on the market. Additionally, third-party payors, such as government health plans and health insurance plans or maintenance organizations, may choose not to include our drugs on their formulary lists for reimbursement. As a result, our drugs may not be used or may be used only for restricted applications.. Our partners have substantial control and discretion over the timing and the continued development and marketing of drug candidates we have licensed to them and, therefore, over the timing and whether we receive anticipated milestone payments and/or royalties.. Our partners have significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations and, therefore, whether we will receive milestone payments and any royalties when anticipated, or at all. Our partners may decide not to proceed with clinical development or commercialization of a particular drug candidate for any number of reasons that are beyond our control, even under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. In addition, our receipt of milestone payments and royalties from our partners depends on their ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates. We also depend on our partners to manufacture clinical scale quantities of some of our drug candidates and would depend on them in the future for commercial scale manufacture, distribution and direct sales. In addition, we may not be apprised of the development or commercialization activities or strategies of our partners and, as a result, our assumptions regarding the anticipated receipt of milestone payments or royalties may be incorrect.. We face additional risks in connection with our collaborations, including the following:. • partners may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to, or competitive with, the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us;. • partners may not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our drug candidates;. 36. Table of Contents. • partners may not properly maintain or defend intellectual property rights we license to them or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability;. • partners may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other business issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries);. • partners are subject to many of the risks described under the heading below \"Risks Related to Our Industry\" and any adverse effects on our partners in connection with their regulatory obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and ability to commercialize our products; and. • disputes may arise between us and our partners delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing partners to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of holders of our securities.. We expect to continue to spend significantly on our proprietary drug candidates.. We are committing significant resources to create our own proprietary drug candidates and to build a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company, in particular after regaining binimetinib and acquiring encorafenib in March 2015. We have built our clinical and discovery programs through spending $1.2 billion from our inception through June 30, 2018.  In fiscal 2018, we spent $185.8 million in research and development for proprietary programs, compared to $178.2 million and $160.7 million for fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to continue to spend significant funds on further development of encorafenib and binimetinib and our other proprietary programs. Additionally, we expect to spend significant funds building our commercialization capabilities. Most of our proprietary programs are in development and are unproven. Thus, despite significant spending on the development of our proprietary programs and building commercialization capabilities, drugs other than encorafenib and binimetinib may not be approved for marketing and sale or, even if approved, may not result in a commercially successful drug or provide the expected return on our investment. Our ability to continue to fund our planned spending on our proprietary drug programs and in building our commercial capabilities depends to a large degree on up-front fees, milestone payments and other revenue we receive as a result of our partnered programs and on our ability to raise additional funds through sales of our equity securities or issuance of debt.. We may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to change our spending priorities on our proprietary programs.. Our liquidity depends in part on our ability to enter into license agreements that include up-front milestone and/or royalty payments. We have 17 ongoing partner-funded clinical programs, and we plan to continue initiatives to partner select clinical and preclinical stage programs to obtain additional capital or fund further development. We may not be successful, however, in entering into additional out-licensing agreements with favorable terms, including up-front, milestone, royalty and/or license payments and the retention of certain valuable commercialization or co-promotion rights, as a result of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:. • our ability to create valuable proprietary drugs targeting large market opportunities;. • strategic decisions to allocate more of our resources to the further development of our proprietary programs and building our commercialization capabilities as our drugs advance;. • research and spending priorities of potential licensing partners;. • willingness of, and the resources available to, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license drug candidates to fill their clinical pipelines;. • the success or failure, and timing, of preclinical and clinical trials for our proprietary programs we intend to out-license; or. • our ability or inability to generate proof-of-concept data and to agree with a potential partner on the value of proprietary drug candidates we are seeking to out-license, or on the related terms.. 37. Table of Contents. If we are unable to enter into out-licensing agreements and realize milestone, license and/or up-front fees when anticipated, it may adversely affect our liquidity and we may be forced to curtail or delay development of all or some of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock and our 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024. In addition, insufficient funds may require us to relinquish greater rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms to us or holders of our securities than we would otherwise choose to obtain funding for our operations.. We may not out-license our proprietary programs at the most appropriate time to maximize the total value or return of these programs to us.. An aspect of our business strategy is to out-license drug candidates for further development, co-development and/or commercialization to obtain the highest possible value while also evaluating earlier out-licensing opportunities to maximize our risk-adjusted return on our investment in proprietary research. Because the costs and risk of failure of bringing a drug to market are high, the value of out-licensing a drug candidate generally increases as it successfully progresses through clinical trials.. We may choose or be forced to out-license a drug candidate or program on terms that require us to relinquish commercial or market rights or at a point in the research and development process that does not provide as great a value or return than what might have been obtained if we had further developed the candidate or program internally. Likewise, we may decline, or be unable to obtain favorable, early out-licensing opportunities in programs that do not result in a commercially viable drug, which could leave the resulting program with little or no value even though significant resources were invested in its development. Our inability to successfully out-license our programs on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. In December 2017, we issued $126.1 million aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024, or the 2024 Notes, to investors pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. Interest is payable on the 2024 Notes semi-annually and the 2024 Notes mature on December 1, 2024, unless redeemed or converted prior to that date. In addition, if an event considered a Fundamental Change under the 2024 Notes occurs, holders of the 2024 Notes may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their 2024 Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2024 Notes to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change purchase date. As of June 30, 2018, all $126.1 million principal amount of the 2024 Notes remained outstanding. We also have a term loan with Silicon Valley Bank under which $15.0 million is outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and have issued Subordinated Convertible Promissory Notes to Redmile Capital Offshore Fund II, Ltd. and Redmile Biopharma Investments I, L.P. under which $10.0 million principal and $0.9 million accrued interest is outstanding as of June 30, 2018.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness, including the 2024 Notes, or to pay the redemption price for the 2024 Notes on a Fundamental Change, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We may not have sufficient cash in the future to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow or secure additional sources of funding, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as significantly reducing our current rate of spending through further reductions in staff, delaying, scaling back or stopping certain research and development programs, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. 38. Table of Contents. Many of our drug candidates are at early stages of development and we may not successfully develop a drug candidate that becomes a commercially viable drug.. The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain and we have limited experience advancing drug candidates that ultimately lead to a commercially viable drug. Other than BRAFTOVI and MEKTOVI, many of our other drug candidates are in the early stages of development. Before a drug product is approved by the FDA for commercial marketing, it is tested for safety and effectiveness in clinical trials that can take up to six years or longer. Promising results in preclinical development or early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials. At any time, we, the FDA, an IRB or other regulatory body may temporarily or permanently stop the trial, for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. We or our partners may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical development process that could delay or prevent our drug candidates from being approved, including:. • failure to achieve clinical trial results that indicate a candidate is effective in treating a specified condition or illness in humans;. • presence of harmful side effects;. • determination by the FDA that the submitted data do not satisfy the criteria for approval;. • lack of commercial viability of the drug;. • failure to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization;. • existence of alternative therapeutics that are more effective; and. • if a drug candidate requires a companion diagnostic test for approval, failure to obtain approval for the companion diagnostic test.. As our product candidates advance to later stage clinical trials, it is customary that various aspects of the development program, such as manufacturing, formulation and other processes, and methods of administration, may be altered to optimize the candidates and processes as part of scale-up necessary for later stage clinical trials and potential approval and commercialization. These changes may not produce the intended optimization, including production of drug substance and drug product of a quality and in a quantity sufficient for Phase 3 clinical stage development or for commercialization, which may cause delays in the initiation or completion of clinical trials and greater costs. We may also need to conduct \"bridging studies\" to demonstrate comparability between newly manufactured drug substance and/or drug product for commercialization relative to previously manufactured drug substance and/or drug product for clinical trials. Demonstrating comparability may require us to incur additional costs or delay initiation or completion of clinical trials and, if unsuccessful, could require us to complete additional preclinical studies or clinical trials.. Our capital requirements could significantly increase as internal spending on our proprietary programs increases.. We believe that the maximum value for certain proprietary drug candidates is best achieved by retaining the rights to develop and commercialize the candidate and not seeking a partner or by waiting until later in the development process to seek a partner to co-develop and commercialize or co-promote a product. It is difficult to predict which of our proprietary programs are likely to yield higher returns if we elect to develop them further before seeking a partner or to not seek a partner at all as a result of many factors, including the competitive position of the product, our capital resources, the perceived value among potential partners of the product and other factors outside of our control. Therefore, we expect to continue to fund, solely or primarily at our expense, further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities for promising proprietary candidates and that our spending on these activities will increase as the programs are developed further and near regulatory approval. However, these efforts may not result in a greater return to Array than if we had chosen to out-license those programs. In addition, we may choose not to out-license certain of our proprietary programs if we are unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. As a result, our requirements for capital could increase significantly. We may be unable to raise additional required capital to fund this additional development on favorable terms, or at all, however, or we may be required to substantially reduce our development efforts, which would delay, limit or prevent our ability to commercialize and realize revenue from our drug candidates.. 39. Table of Contents. Because we rely on a small number of partners for a significant portion of our revenue, if one or more of our major partners terminates or reduces the scope of its agreement with us, our revenue may significantly decrease.. A relatively small number of partners account for a significant portion of our revenue. Novartis accounted for 47% and 72% of our total revenue, Loxo accounted for 8% and 11%, and Pierre Fabre accounted for 12% and 8% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively. ASLAN accounted for 13% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018 and none for fiscal 2017. We expect that revenue from a limited number of partners, including Novartis, Pierre Fabre, and Loxo will account for a large portion of our revenue in future quarters. In general, our partners may terminate their contracts with us upon 60 to 180 days' notice for a number of reasons or no reason, which would eliminate future milestone or royalty revenue under the collaboration. In addition, certain of our partners do not generate revenue or sufficient revenue to cover their operating expenses and their ability to continue to fund milestone and other payments under our agreements with them depends on their ability to raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities or from other sources. To the extent such funding is not available to these partners when needed, they may not be able to fund their obligations to us and we would therefore not realize revenue when anticipated or at all under our agreement with them.. If our drug discovery and development programs do not progress as anticipated, our revenue, stock price and the value of the 2024 Notes could be negatively impacted.. We estimate the timing of a variety of preclinical, clinical, regulatory and other milestones for planning purposes, including when a drug candidate is expected to enter clinical trials, when patient enrollment will commence or be complete, when a clinical trial will be completed, when and if additional clinical trials will commence, or when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. We base our estimates on facts that are currently known to us and on a variety of assumptions that may prove not to be correct for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. For example, delays in the development of drugs by us or our partners may be caused by regulatory or patent issues, negative or inconclusive interim or final results of on-going clinical trials, scheduling conflicts with participating clinics and the availability of patients who meet the criteria for and the rate of patient enrollment in, clinical trials and the development priorities of our partners. In addition, in preparing these estimates we rely on the timeliness and accuracy of information and estimates reported or provided to us by our partners concerning the timing, progress and results of clinical trials or other development activities they conduct under our collaborations with them. If we or our partners do not achieve milestones when anticipated, or if our partners choose to terminate a program, we may not achieve our planned revenue, our expenses could be higher than anticipated and our stock price could decline. In addition, any delays in obtaining approvals to market and sell drugs may result in the loss of competitive advantages in being on the market sooner than, or in advance of, competing products, which may reduce the value of these products and the potential revenue we receive from the eventual sale of these products, either directly or under agreements with our partners.. We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced scientists and management we need to compete in the drug research and development industry.. We have 298 full-time employees as of June 30, 2018, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled scientists and management. Our ability to achieve our business strategies, including progressing drug candidates through later stage development or commercialization, attracting new partners and retaining, renewing and expanding existing collaborations, depends on our ability to hire and retain high caliber scientists and other qualified experts, particularly in clinical development and commercialization. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research companies and academic and research institutions to recruit personnel and face significant competition for qualified personnel, particularly clinical development personnel. We may incur greater costs than anticipated, or may not be successful, in attracting new scientists or management or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. In addition, we periodically review our existing workforce in light of the current and anticipated needs of our business and may make strategic changes to its size and scope in an effort to use our capital more efficiently.. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. In particular, we rely on the services of Ron Squarer, our Chief Executive Officer; Jason Haddock,. 40. Table of Contents. our Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Victor Sandor, our Chief Medical Officer; Dr. Nicholas Saccomano, our Chief Scientific Officer; Andrew Robbins, our Chief Operating Officer; and Curtis Oltmans, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel. We have employment agreements with each of these employees that are terminable upon 30 days' prior notice.. Our liquidity and results of operations is dependent on the full and timely collection of the Company's receivables from Novartis.. As a result of the asset transfer agreements with Novartis, which included the reimbursement by Novartis of significant costs we incur for the development of encorafenib and binimetinib, we anticipate recording significant accounts receivable from Novartis on a monthly basis. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable from Novartis in full and on a timely basis, there could be a negative impact on our liquidity and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Clinical Development Activities and Obtaining Regulatory Approval for Our Programs. We have limited later-stage clinical development and commercialization experience.. One of our business strategies is to develop select drug candidates through later stage clinical trials before out-licensing them to a pharmaceutical or biotechnology partner for further clinical development and commercialization and to commercialize select drug candidates ourselves. We have limited experience conducting later-stage clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals and we may not be successful in some or all of these activities. We expect to spend significant amounts to recruit and retain high quality personnel with clinical development experience. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Developing commercialization capabilities is expensive and time-consuming and may be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, requiring us to divert resources from other intended purposes. Any failure to develop or difficulties or delays in developing or optimizing these capabilities could delay any product launch and adversely impact the successful commercialization of our product candidates. To the extent we are unable to or determine not to develop these resources internally, we may be forced to rely on third-party clinical research or marketing organizations, which could subject us to costs and to delays that are outside our control. If we are unable to establish adequate capabilities independently or with others, we may be unable to generate product revenues for certain candidates.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into or maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may not be successful in commercializing our product candidates if and when they are approved.. We have no experience in the sales, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products in any country. To achieve commercial success for any product for which we obtain marketing approval, we will need to establish sales and marketing capabilities or make and maintain our existing arrangements with third parties to perform these services at a level sufficient to support our commercialization efforts.. To the extent that we would undertake sales and marketing of any of our products directly, there are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to physicians or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products; our inability to effectively manage geographically dispersed sales and marketing teams; the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we or our partners fail to adequately conduct clinical trials, regulatory approvals necessary for the sale of drugs may not be obtained when anticipated, or at all, which would reduce or eliminate our potential return on that program.. Before any of our drug candidates can be sold commercially, we or our partners must conduct clinical trials that demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for use in humans for the indications sought. The results of these clinical trials are the basis to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the FDA. Conducting. 41. Table of Contents. clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that requires an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims being sought. The length of time, number of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially according to their type, complexity, novelty and the drug candidate's intended use and therefore, we may spend several years completing certain trials. Further, the time within which we or our partners can complete our clinical trials depends in large part on the ability to enroll eligible patients who meet the enrollment criteria and who are in proximity to the trial sites. We and our partners also face competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As a consequence, there may be limited availability of eligible patients, which can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals and associated delays in drug candidates reaching the market. Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of clinical trials that may delay or prohibit regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Even if we or our partners successfully conduct clinical trials, we or our partners may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval on this basis.. In addition, we plan to conduct further clinical trial activities in territories outside the U.S. through third-party clinical trial service providers that contract with clinical sites and enroll patients in foreign jurisdictions, including Eastern Europe and South America, and may do so in new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited. Some of these foreign jurisdictions may impose requirements on us or our third-party clinical trial service providers or contract manufacturers that are more stringent than those imposed by the FDA, which may delay the development and approval of our drug candidates.. If we or our partners fail to adequately manage the increasing number, size and complexity of clinical trials, the clinical trials and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we or our partners may fail to gain approval for our drug candidates altogether. If we or our partners are unable to market and sell our drug candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the time frame needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues.. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our products or products of our partners, including any Phase 3 or pivotal trials for encorafenib and/or binimetinib, selumetinib (partnered with AstraZeneca) danoprevir (partnered with Intermune/Roche Holding AG), ipatasertib (partnered with Genentech), and larotrectinib (partnered with Loxo Oncology) could significantly affect our product development costs and our ability to generate revenue. We do not know whether the FDA will agree with the trial designs for ongoing and planned clinical trials or whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to the ability of Array or our partners to do the following:. • provide sufficient safety, efficacy or other data regarding a drug candidate to support the commencement of a Phase 3 or other clinical trial;. • reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract manufacturers, CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different third parties;. • select CROs, trial sites and, where necessary, contract manufacturers that do not encounter any regulatory compliance problems;. • manufacture sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials;. • obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site;. • recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials, which can be impacted by many factors outside our or our partners' control, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications;. • retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues; and. • develop and validate a companion diagnostic test for a drug candidate that requires one.. 42. Table of Contents. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us or our partner, the FDA, an IRB, a clinical trial site with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, including GCP, or our protocols;. • inspection of the clinical trial operations, trial sites or manufacturing facility by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in findings of non-compliance and the imposition of a clinical hold;. • unforeseen safety issues or results that do not demonstrate efficacy; and. • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. Additionally, we or our partners may need to amend clinical trial protocols for a variety of reasons, including to reflect changes in regulatory requirements and guidance. Such amendments may require us to, for example, resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed and/or reduced. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate.. Drug candidates that we develop with our partners or on our own may not receive regulatory approval.. The development and commercialization of drug candidates with our partners and through our own internal drug discovery efforts are subject to regulation. Pharmaceutical products require lengthy and costly testing in animals and humans and regulatory approval by governmental agencies prior to commercialization. It takes several years to complete testing and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Results attained in preclinical testing and early clinical trials for any of our drug candidates may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later studies and significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials may arise, even after promising results in earlier studies. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. Furthermore, data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. For example, following our submission of NDAs for encorafenib and binimetinib in BRAF-mutant melanoma, we continued to work with the FDA as they reviewed the submissions. We may also experience other delays in obtaining regulatory review or approval. For a drug candidate that requires a companion diagnostic test, we may not be able to obtain approval for the drug if the FDA does not approve or clear its corresponding companion diagnostic test. In addition, the administration of any drug candidate we develop may produce undesirable side effects or safety issues that could result in the interruption, delay or suspension of clinical trials, or the failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for any or all targeted indications. Based on results at any stage of testing, we or our partners may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of a drug candidate.. Approval of a drug candidate as safe and effective for use in humans is never certain and regulatory agencies may delay or deny approval of drug candidates for commercialization. These agencies may also delay or deny approval based on additional government regulation or administrative action, changes in regulatory policy during the period of clinical trials in humans and regulatory review, or the availability of alternative treatments. None of our partners has obtained regulatory approval to manufacture and sell drug candidates owned by us or identified or developed under an agreement with us. If we or our partners cannot obtain this approval, we will not realize milestone or royalty payments based on commercialization goals for these drug candidates.. Even after our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we and our partners will continue to be subject to ongoing government regulation, including federal and state fraud and abuse laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws.. Even after regulatory authorities approve any of our drug candidates, the manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, distribution, advertising, promotion, marketing, sale, import and export of these drugs continue to be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. If we, our partners, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may suspend any ongoing clinical trials; issue warning letters or untitled letters; suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications; suspend or impose restrictions on operations; seize. 43. Table of Contents. or detain products, prohibit the export or import of products, or require us to initiate a product recall; seek other monetary or injunctive remedies; or impose civil or criminal penalties.. Compliance with ongoing regulation consumes substantial financial and management resources and may expose us and our partners to the potential for other adverse circumstances. For example, approval for a drug may be conditioned on costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Based on these studies, if a regulatory authority does not believe that the drug demonstrates an appropriate benefit-risk profile to patients, it could limit the indications for which a drug may be sold or revoke the drug's marketing approval. In addition, identification of certain side effects after a drug is on the market may result in the subsequent withdrawal of approval, reformulation of a drug, additional preclinical and clinical trials, changes in labeling or distribution. Alternatively, we may be required by the FDA to develop and implement a REMS to ensure the safe use of our products.. REMS may include costly risk management measures such as enhanced safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Any of these requirements could delay or prevent us from generating revenue, or limit the revenue, from the commercialization of these drugs and cause us to incur significant additional costs.. In addition, the marketing of these drugs by us or our partners may be heavily scrutinized by the FDA, the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Inspector General, state attorneys general, members of Congress and the public. Our promotional activities will be regulated by federal and state laws pertaining to health care \"fraud and abuse,\" such as:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, items or services for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The term \"remuneration\" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, and the government can establish a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute without proving that a person or entity had actual knowledge of the law or specific intent to violate it;. • the federal civil False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false claim paid. There are also criminal penalties, including imprisonment and criminal fines, for making or presenting a false or fictitious or fraudulent claim to the federal government;. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), which created federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program including private third-party payors;. • the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program to report annually (with certain exceptions) to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other ''transfers of value'' made to physicians and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members and payments or other ''transfers of value'' to such physician owners;. • the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and/or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business; and. • analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws some of which apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; and state laws that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing. 44. Table of Contents. expenditures, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Additional information about these laws is provided above under the heading \"Interactions with Healthcare Providers.\". The complexity of U.S. federal and state laws governing our business continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being committed to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. Violations of these laws can result in costly litigation, and significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, including fines and/or imprisonment, monetary penalties, damages, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, and burdensome reporting and compliance obligations. Even if we are not found to be in violation of these laws, responding to lawsuits, government investigations, and enforcement actions would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operations, and growth prospects.. If our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenue.. Even if our drug candidates are approved for sale, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our drug candidates will depend on a number of factors including:. • demonstration of clinical effectiveness and safety;. • potential advantages of our drug candidates over alternative treatments;. • ability to offer our drug candidates for sale at competitive prices;. • availability of adequate third-party reimbursement; and. • effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products.. If our drug candidates do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and others in the medical community, our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our drug candidates would be limited.. Third-party manufacturers we rely on may encounter failures or difficulties in manufacturing or formulating clinical development and commercial supplies of drugs, which could delay the clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates, or their ultimate commercial production if approved.. We rely on third parties to manufacture our drug candidates. In June 2015, we sold our chemical, manufacturing and controls activities and no longer have manufacturing facilities that can produce quantities of API and finished drug product for large-scale clinical trials. We therefore contract with third-party manufacturers to produce larger quantities of API for us. Some of these manufacturers are located outside the U.S. and may obtain ingredients from suppliers in other foreign countries before shipping the bulk API to Array in the U.S. Cross-border shipments of pharmaceutical ingredients and products are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the FDA and in foreign jurisdictions, including, in the EU, under laws adopted by the EU Member States implementing the Community Code on Medicinal Products Directive 2001/83, as amended. These foreign regulations generally impose various requirements on us and/or our third-party manufacturers. In some cases, for example in the EU, there are cGMP requirements that exceed the requirements of the FDA. In other cases, we must provide confirmation that we are registered with the FDA and have either an IND application or an approved NDA. Third-party manufacturers may lack capacity to meet our needs, go out of business or fail to perform. In addition, supplies of raw materials needed for manufacturing or formulation of clinical supplies may not be available or may be in short supply.. Accordingly, we must either develop such manufacturing facilities, which will require substantial additional funds, or rely on third-party manufacturers for the production of drug candidates. Furthermore, following FDA approval for encorafenib and binimetinib, we expect to rely, at least to some extent, on third-party manufacturers for commercial production. Our dependence on others for the manufacture of our drug candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver such drug candidates on a timely and competitive basis.. Any performance failure on the part of a third-party manufacturer could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or, ultimately, sales of our or our partners' drug candidates. Third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, regulatory compliance, lot release, quality control and quality assurance, as well as. 45. Table of Contents. shortages of qualified personnel. Approval of our drug candidates could be delayed, limited or denied if the FDA does not approve our or a third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities. Moreover, the ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply drug candidates is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of the manufacturing facilities, which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including:. • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier;. • capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers;. • facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses or cross contamination;. • compliance with regulatory requirements, including Form 483 notices and Warning Letters;. • changes in forecasts of future demand;. • timing and actual number of production runs;. • production success rates and bulk drug yields; and. • timing and outcome of product quality testing.. In addition, our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our drug candidates or drugs for a variety of reasons, including accidents during operation, failure of equipment, delays in receiving materials, natural or other disasters, political or governmental changes, or other factors inherent in operating manufacturing facilities. Supply chain management is complex and involves sourcing from a number of different companies and foreign countries. Commercially available starting materials, reagents and excipients may become scarce or more expensive to procure, and we may not be able to obtain favorable terms in agreements with contractors and subcontractors. Our third-party manufacturers may not be able to operate our respective manufacturing facilities in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If our third-party manufacturers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party manufacturers and other service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, such interruption could delay progress on our programs, or interrupt the commercial supply, with the potential for additional costs and lost revenues. If this were to occur, we may also need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs.. We may not be able to enter into agreements for the manufacture of our drug candidates with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply with applicable law. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer's compliance with these regulations and standards. If one of our manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the contract manufacturer could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, the production of our drug candidates could be interrupted or suspended, or our product could be recalled or withdrawn, among other potential consequences, and any of these events could result in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues.. Our development, testing and manufacture of drug candidates may expose us to product liability and other lawsuits.. We develop, test and manufacture drug candidates that are generally intended for use in humans. Our drug discovery and development activities, including clinical trials we or our partners conduct, that result in the future manufacture and sale of drugs by us or our partners expose us to the risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using these drug candidates. We may be required to pay substantial damages or incur legal costs in connection with defending any of these product liability claims, or we may not receive revenue from expected royalty or milestone payments if the commercialization of a drug is limited or ceases as a result of such claims. We have product liability insurance that contains customary exclusions and provides coverage up to $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, which we believe is customary in our industry for our current operations. However, our product liability insurance does not cover every type of product liability claim that we may face or loss we may incur and may not adequately compensate us for the entire amount of covered claims or losses or for the harm to our business reputation. We may be unable to acquire additional or maintain our current insurance policies at acceptable costs or at all.. 46. Table of Contents. Due to our reliance on CROs and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials.. We rely primarily on third parties to manufacture API and drug product and to conduct our clinical trials. As a result, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes, as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract manufacturing or contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost.. Controls we or our third-party service providers have in place to ensure compliance with laws may not be effective to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.. The discovery and development of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by state and federal agencies and in foreign countries. Due to escalating costs and difficulties associated with conducting certain types of clinical trials in the U.S., we conduct certain clinical trials in foreign locations where we have little experience, including countries in Eastern Europe and South America. We expect that we typically will conduct these trials through third-party clinical trial service providers. In addition, we purchase from third-party suppliers and manufacturers that are located outside the U.S., principally countries in Europe, intermediate and bulk API that are used in our development efforts and we contract with third-party service providers to prepare finished drug product, including packaging and labeling. As a result, we and our contractors are subject to regulations in the U.S. and in the foreign countries in which the API is sourced and manufactured relating to the cross-border shipment of pharmaceutical ingredients. Although we have developed and instituted controls, we cannot assure you that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors will operate at all times in full compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. Further, we have a limited ability to monitor and control the activities of third-party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers to ensure compliance by such parties with all applicable regulations and/or laws. We may be subject to direct liabilities or be required to indemnify such parties against certain liabilities arising out of any failure by them to comply with such regulations and/or laws. If we or our employees, consultants or contractors fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of consequences could result, including, but not limited to, the suspension or termination of clinical trials, failure to obtain approval of a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation.. If our use of chemical and hazardous materials violates applicable laws or regulations or causes personal injury we may be liable for damages.. Our drug discovery activities, including the analysis and synthesis of chemical compounds, involve the controlled use of chemicals, including flammable, combustible, toxic and radioactive materials that are potentially hazardous. Our use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and local fire codes and regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, the DEA, the Department of Energy, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and the Colorado Department of Human Services, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division. We may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, which could result in material unanticipated expenses, such as substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs or damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our business. Those expenses could exceed our net worth and limit our ability to raise additional capital.. 47. Table of Contents. Our operations could be interrupted by damage to our specialized laboratory facilities.. Our operations depend on the continued use of our highly specialized laboratories and equipment in Boulder, Colorado. Catastrophic events, including fires or explosions, could damage our laboratories, equipment, scientific data, work in progress or inventories of chemical compounds and may materially interrupt our business. We employ safety precautions in our laboratory activities in order to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of these catastrophic events; however, we cannot eliminate the chance that such an event will occur. The availability of laboratory space in Boulder is limited and rebuilding our facilities could be time consuming and result in substantial delays in fulfilling our agreements with our partners. We maintain business interruption insurance in the amount of $15 million to cover continuing expenses and lost revenue caused by such occurrences. However, this insurance does not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential harm to customer relations that our inability to meet our partners' needs in a timely manner could create.. Risks Related to Our Drug Discovery Activities. Revenue from collaborations depends on the extent to which the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries collaborate with other companies for one or more aspects of their drug discovery process.. Our capabilities include aspects of the drug discovery process that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have traditionally performed internally. The willingness of these companies to expand or continue drug discovery collaborations to enhance their research and development process is based on several factors that are beyond our control, any of which could cause our revenue to decline. These include their ability to hire and retain qualified scientists, the resources available for entering into drug discovery collaborations and the spending priorities among various types of research activities. In addition, our ability to convince these companies to use our drug discovery capabilities, rather than develop them internally, depends on many factors, including our ability to:. • develop and implement drug discovery technologies that will result in the identification of higher quality drug candidates;. • attract and retain experienced, high caliber scientists;. • achieve timely, high-quality results at an acceptable cost; and. • design, create and manufacture our chemical compounds in quantities, at purity levels and at costs that are acceptable to our partners.. The importance of these factors varies depending on the company and type of discovery program and we may be unable to meet any or all of them in the future. Even if we are able to address these factors, these companies may still decide to perform these activities internally or retain other companies that provide drug research and development expertise similar to ours.. Our research and development capabilities may not produce viable drug candidates.. We have entered into several research and development collaborations under which we provide drug discovery and development services to identify drug candidates for our partners. We also seek to identify and develop drug candidates for our proprietary programs. It is uncertain whether we will be able to provide drug discovery more efficiently or create high quality drug candidates that are suitable for our or our partners' purposes, which may result in delayed or lost revenue, loss of partners or failure to expand our existing relationships. Our ability to create viable drug candidates for ourselves and our partners depends on many factors, including the implementation of appropriate technologies, the development of effective new research tools, the complexity of the chemistry and biology, the lack of predictability in the scientific process and the performance and decision-making capabilities of our scientists. Our information-driven technology platform, which we believe allows our scientists to make better decisions, may not enable our scientists to make correct decisions or develop viable drug candidates.. 48. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Industry. The concentration of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry and any further consolidation could reduce the number of our potential partners.. There are a limited number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and these companies represent a significant portion of the market for our capabilities. The number of our potential partners could decline even further through consolidation among these companies. If the number of our potential partners declines even further, they may be able to negotiate greater rights to the intellectual property they license from us, price discounts or other terms that are unfavorable to us.. Capital market conditions may reduce our biotechnology partners' ability to fund research and development.. Traditionally, many unprofitable biotechnology companies have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the debt and equity markets. These markets have historically been volatile and declines in these markets may severely restrict their ability to raise new capital and to continue to expand or fund existing research and development efforts. If our current or future biotechnology partners are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund research and development expenditures, we may not be able to expand or maintain current revenue.. Health care reform, including those based on recently enacted legislation and cost control initiatives by third-party payors, could reduce the prices that can be charged for drugs, which could limit the commercial success of our drug candidates.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together the \"Healthcare Reform Act\", substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, mandatory discounts on pharmaceuticals under federal health care programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, and fraud and abuse enforcement. In addition, continued implementation of the Healthcare Reform Act may result in the expansion of new programs such as Medicare payment for performance initiatives, and may impact existing government healthcare programs, such as by improving the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act may negatively affect any revenues from products we or our partners are able to commercialize in the future. For example, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act's provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, manufacturers of branded prescription drugs are required to provide a 50% discount on drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this coverage gap. The Healthcare Reform Act also expanded the 340B pricing program to include additional entity types, as described below in the risk factor under the heading \"Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant ongoing health care regulatory obligations and oversight, including reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our or their ability to commercialize our products\".. Many of the Healthcare Reform Act's most significant reforms did not take effect until 2014 or thereafter, and the resulting new programs and requirements will continue to evolve in the next few years. On February 1, 2016, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under the Health Reform Act. These regulations became effective April 1, 2016. Some states have chosen not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level. In part because not all states have expanded their Medicaid programs, it is unclear whether there will be more uninsured patients than anticipated when Congress passed the Healthcare Reform Act. For each state that has opted not to expand its Medicaid program, there will be fewer insured patients overall. An increase in the proportion of uninsured patients who are prescribed products resulting from our proprietary or partnered programs could impact future sales of any products that are commercialized in the future and our business and results of operations.. 49. Table of Contents. Moreover, legislative changes to the Healthcare Reform Act remain possible. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act, as currently enacted and as may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on the ability of Array or our partners to successfully commercialize product candidates or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects.. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could limit the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies, or may facilitate the introduction of generic competition with respect to products we are able to commercialize, and so may limit our commercial opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits.. In some countries other than the U.S., reimbursement, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business.. Also, we expect managed care plans will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products due to a trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we, or any potential partners, receive for any of our future products, which could adversely affect our profitability. These initiatives may also have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to in-licensing drug candidates and the research and development of new drugs, which could reduce our resulting revenue. Any cost containment measures or other reforms that are adopted could have a negative impact on our ability to commercialize successfully our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on development of new drugs and affect our profitability.. Other legislation affecting government expenditures more broadly have the potential to affect negatively our product revenues and prospects for continued profitability. For example, beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologicals, have been reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, or BCA, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240, or ATRA. The BCA requires sequestration for most federal programs, excluding Medicaid, Social Security, and certain other programs, because Congress failed to enact legislation by January 15, 2012, to reduce federal deficits by $1.2 trillion over ten years. Subsequent legislation extended the 2% reduction, on average, to 2025. These sequestration cuts could adversely impact payment for products that we or our partners are able to commercialize, which could negatively impact our revenue.. We, or our partners, may not obtain favorable reimbursement rates for our drug candidates.. The commercial success of our drug candidates will depend on the availability and adequacy of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. Our products may be considered less cost-effective than existing products and, as such, coverage and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or be sufficient to allow the sale of our products on a competitive basis or on a profitable basis.. In addition, the market for our drug candidates will depend significantly on access to third-party payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. Industry competition to be included in such formularies can result in downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. As such, we cannot provide assurances that our products will be placed on third-party payors' formularies. To the extent that our products are listed on third-party payors' formularies, we or our partners may not be able to negotiate favorable reimbursement rates for our products. If we, or our partners, fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, sales of the drugs would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for the products.. 50. Table of Contents. Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, or ASP, average manufacturer price, or AMP, and Actual Acquisition Cost. Certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS surveys and publishes National Average Drug Acquisition Cost, or NADAC, files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, on a weekly basis. It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover candidate products that we or our partners are able to commercialize. As discussed above, to the extent that we or our partners participate in government pricing programs, recent legislative changes to the 340B drug pricing program, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit also could impact our revenues. We anticipate that a significant portion of revenue from sales of drugs that we or our partners are able to commercialize may be obtained through government payors, including Medicaid, and any failure to qualify for reimbursement for those products under those programs would have a material adverse effect on our sales revenues and royalties.. The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we may be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we believe these lawsuits are likely to continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Because we produce drug candidates for a broad range of therapeutic areas and provide many different capabilities in this industry, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that control patents for similar drug candidates or capabilities or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe or patents that we believe we do not infringe that we are ultimately found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in many cases maintained in secrecy for 18 months after filing or even until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe with our products. In addition, technology created under our research and development collaborations may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, in which case we may not receive milestone or royalty revenue from those collaborations.. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including triple damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe the patent. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements at a reasonable cost or effectively redesign our products. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could delay the introduction of our products or prevent us from manufacturing or selling products.. The intellectual property rights we rely on to protect our proprietary drug candidates and the technology underlying our tools and techniques may be inadequate to prevent third parties from using our technology or developing competing capabilities or to protect our interests in our proprietary drug candidates.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect patents and maintain the secrecy of proprietary processes and other technologies we develop for the testing and synthesis of chemical compounds in the drug discovery process. We currently have numerous U.S. patents and patent applications on file with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as around the world.. Any patents that we may own or license now or in the future may not afford meaningful protection for our drug candidates or our technology and tools. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may have to initiate legal proceedings against third parties. Our efforts to enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights may not be successful and may result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. In addition, other companies may challenge our patents and, as a result, these patents could be narrowed, invalidated or deemed unenforceable, or we may be forced to stop using the technology covered by these patents or to license the technology from third parties. In addition, current and future patent applications on which we depend may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. Even if our rights are valid, enforceable and broad in scope, competitors may develop drug candidates or other products based on similar research or technology that is not covered by our patents.. 51. Table of Contents. Patent applications relating to or affecting our business may have been filed by a number of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and academic institutions. A number of the technologies in these applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patents or patent applications, which could reduce the scope of patent protection we could otherwise obtain. We could also become involved in interference proceedings in connection with one or more of our patents or patent applications to determine priority of inventions. We cannot be certain that we are the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for any such inventions.. Drug candidates we develop that are approved for commercial marketing by the FDA would be eligible for market exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic versions of a drug may not be marketed and we could apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired.. Agreements we have with our employees, consultants and partners may not afford adequate protection for our trade secrets, confidential information and other proprietary information.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. The failure by employees, consultants or advisors to maintain the secrecy of our confidential information may compromise or prevent our ability to obtain needed or meaningful patent protection. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to compete effectively, or exclude certain competitors from the market.. The drug research and development industry is highly competitive and we compete with some companies that offer a broader range of capabilities and have better access to resources than we do.. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We compete with many companies worldwide that are engaged in the research and discovery, licensing, development and commercialization of drug candidates. Some of our competitors have a broader range of capabilities and have greater access to financial, technical, scientific, regulatory, business development, recruiting and other resources than we do. Their access to greater resources may allow them to develop processes or products that are more effective, safer or less costly, or gain greater market acceptance, than products we develop or for which they obtain FDA approval more rapidly than we do. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and advanced technologies become available.. If we fail to comply with data protection laws and regulations, we could be subject to government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity, which could negatively affect or operating results and business.. Most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our partners obtain patient information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under HIPAA, as amended by HITECH. Our clinical research efforts are not directly regulated by HIPAA. However, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain, use or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. In addition, we and our partners may be directly subject to certain data protection laws and regulations (i.e., laws and regulations that. 52. Table of Contents. address privacy and data security). In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information could apply to our operations or the operations of our partners, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, state genetic privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the FTC Act). International data protection laws and regulations may also apply to some or all of the clinical data obtained outside of the U.S. For example, the EU Data Protection Directive, as implemented into national laws by the EU Member States, imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. The EU Data Protection Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the European Economic Area, or EEA, such as the U.S., which are not considered by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of data protection. Switzerland has adopted similar restrictions. Although there are legal mechanisms to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EEA and Switzerland to the U.S., a recent decision of the European Court of Justice that invalidated the safe harbor framework has increased uncertainty around compliance with EU privacy law requirements. As a result of the decision, it will no longer be possible to rely on safe harbor certification as a legal basis for the transfer of personal data from the EU to entities in the U.S. In addition, data protection authorities from the different EU Member States may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU. In February 2016, the European Commission announced an agreement with the U.S. Department of Commerce, or DOC, to replace the invalidated Safe Harbor framework with a new EU-U.S. \"Privacy Shield.\" On July 12, 2016, the European Commission adopted a decision on the adequacy of the protection provided by the Privacy Shield. The Privacy Shield is intended to address the requirements set out by the European Court of Justice in its recent ruling by imposing more stringent obligations on companies, providing stronger monitoring and enforcement by the DOC and FTC, and making commitments on the part of public authorities regarding access to information. U.S. companies are able to certify to the DOC their compliance with the privacy principles of the Privacy Shield since August 1, 2016. In December 2015, a proposal for an EU General Data Protection Regulation, intended to replace the current EU Data Protection Directive, was agreed between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission. The EU General Data Protection Regulation, which was officially adopted in April 2016 and become applicable in May 2018, introduced new data protection requirements in the EU, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The EU General Data Protection Regulation has increased our responsibility and liability in relation to any personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new EU data protection rules.. Failure to comply with U.S. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. Moreover, patients about whom we or our partners obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or security breaches could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including but not limited to intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information). It is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and as a result we manage a number of third party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third party vendors with whom we contract, and the large amounts of confidential information stored on those systems, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third party vendors, and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties (including the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information). Significant disruptions of our information technology systems or security breaches could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information (including intellectual property, proprietary. 53. Table of Contents. business information and personal information), and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. Any such event that leads to unauthorized access, use or disclosure of personal information, including personal information regarding our patients or employees, could compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to mandatory corrective action, and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and reputational damages that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. Pharmaceutical companies are subject to significant ongoing health care regulatory obligations and oversight, including reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our or their ability to commercialize our products.. If we or any partners fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any partners' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business.. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we will be required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data that would be reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. If we participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we must also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs, which can represent a significant discount and is based on the pricing data reporting to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.. The Healthcare Reform Act expanded the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program to include additional entity types: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Healthcare Reform Act. The Healthcare Reform Act exempts drugs designated under section 526 of the FDC Act as \"orphan drugs\" from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities.. The Healthcare Reform Act also obligates HRSA to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program. HRSA issued a proposed regulation in 2015 regarding the calculation of the 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities. HRSA has indicated it plans to issue the final regulation regarding these topics in 2016. HRSA in 2015 also released proposed omnibus guidance that addresses many aspects of the 340B program. HRSA has indicated it plans to release the omnibus guidance in final form in 2016. HRSA recently issued a proposed regulation regarding an administrative dispute resolution process for the 340B program. Any final regulations and guidance could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or otherwise expand the 340B program.. Federal law also requires that for a drug manufacturer's products to be eligible for payment with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, the manufacturer must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Manufacturers that participate in the FSS pricing program must list their covered (innovator) drugs on an FSS contract and charge no more than Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP, to the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard when those agencies purchase from the FSS contract or a depot contract. FCP is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price data, which manufacturers must submit quarterly and annually. In addition, if our products become available in the retail pharmacy setting when they are commercialized, we would be required to provide rebates to the Department of Defense for prescriptions dispensed to Tricare beneficiaries from Tricare. 54. Table of Contents. retail network pharmacies under the Tricare Retail Refund Program. These programs obligate the manufacturer to pay rebates and offer its drugs at certain prices to certain federal purchasers. To the extent we choose to participate in these government healthcare programs, these and other requirements may affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and will often be subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. If we become aware that our reporting of pricing data for a prior quarter was incorrect, we will be obligated to resubmit the corrected data. For the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, corrected data must be submitted for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and other governmental pricing programs.. We may be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. If we are found to have knowingly submitted false pricing data to the Medicaid program or the FSS pricing program, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of up to $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit pricing data to the Medicaid program or the FSS pricing program on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the information is late. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, which is the agreement under which we would participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found to be incomplete or incorrect.. Risks Related to Our Stock and Our 2024 Notes. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price and the value of the 2024 Notes to decline.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Entering into collaborations typically involves significant technical evaluation and/or commitment of capital by our partners. Accordingly, negotiation can be lengthy and is subject to a number of significant risks, including partners' budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews and a significant portion of our revenue from these collaborations is attributable to up-front payments and milestones that are non-recurring. Further, some of our partners can influence when we deliver products and perform services or milestones are achieved and, therefore, when we receive revenue, under their contracts with us. Due to these factors, our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect the research and development expenditures of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If we do not meet analysts' and/or investors' expectations, our stock price and the value of our 2024 Notes could decline.. Because our stock price may be volatile, our stock price and the value of our 2024 Notes could experience substantial declines.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. The high and low sales prices for our common stock were $20.21 and $7.15, respectively, during fiscal 2018; $12.56 and $3.17, respectively, during fiscal 2017; and $7.11 and $2.50, respectively, during fiscal 2016. Our quarterly operating results, the success or failure of our internal drug discovery efforts, decisions to delay, modify or cease one or more of our development programs, negative data or adverse events reported on programs in clinical trials we or our. 55. Table of Contents. partners are conducting, uncertainties about our ability to continue to fund our operating plan, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting our partners, our competitors or us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. This volatility coupled with market declines in our industry over the past several years have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and the value of our 2024 Notes. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources, regardless of whether we win or lose.. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and are restricted in our ability to do so under our Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. Conversion of the notes may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders, including holders of 2024 Notes who convert their notes.. At our election, we may settle 2024 Notes tendered for conversion entirely or partly in shares of our common stock. As a result, the conversion of some or all of the 2024 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and, in turn, the price of the 2024 Notes. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the 2024 Notes could depress the price of our common stock.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2024 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. The 2024 Notes are accounted for in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 470-20, Debt  -  Debt with Conversion and Other Options. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the 2024 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the 2024 Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the 2024 Notes to their face amount over the term of the 2024 Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2024 Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the 2024 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the 2024 Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. 56. Table of Contents. Certain provisions in the 2024 Notes and the related indenture as well as Delaware law and our organizational documents could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt of us, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Certain provisions in the 2024 Notes and the indenture, as well as certain provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change, holders of the 2024 Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes in cash. In addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their 2024 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.. Delaware law prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could similarly delay, defer or discourage a change in control of us or management. These provisions could also discourage a proxy contest and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Such provisions provide for the following, among other things: (i) the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; (ii) the ability of our Board of Directors to establish the rights and preferences of authorized and unissued preferred stock; (iii) a Board of Directors divided into three classes of directors serving staggered three year terms; (iv) permitting only the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the president or the Board of Directors to call a special meeting of stockholders; and (v) requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals and related information. In any of these cases, and in other cases, our obligations under the 2024 Notes and the indenture, as well as provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents and other agreements could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management.. At our election, we may settle 2024 Notes tendered for conversion entirely or partly in shares of our common stock. As a result, the conversion of some or all of the 2024 Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock and, in turn, the price of the 2024 Notes. In addition, the existence of the 2024 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the 2024 Notes could depress the price of our common stock."
