[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our financial results and the market price of our stock are subject to risks arising from many factors, including the risks listed below, as well as other risks and uncertainties. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. (Please note that the discussion below regarding the potential impact on Arrow of certain of these factors that may develop in the future is not meant to provide predictions by Arrow's management that such factors will develop, but to acknowledge the possible negative consequences to our Company and business if certain conditions materialize.). Market conditions could present significant challenges to the U.S. commercial banking industry and its core business of making and servicing loans and any substantial downturn in the regional markets in which we operate or in the U.S. economy generally could adversely affect our ability to maintain steady growth in our loan portfolio and our earnings.  Our business is highly dependent on the business environment in the markets in which we operate as well as the United States as a whole.  Our business  is dependent upon the financial stability of our borrowers, including their ability to pay interest on and repay the principal amount of outstanding loans, the value of the collateral securing those loans, and the overall demand for loans and our other products and services, all of which impact our stability and future growth.  Although our market area has experienced a stabilizing of economic conditions in recent years and even periods of modest growth, if unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions unique to our market area should occur in upcoming periods, these conditions will likely have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and financial performance.  As a community bank, we are less able than our larger regional competitors to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions over a larger market area.  Further, if the overall U.S. economy deteriorates, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.  In particular, our financial performance may be adversely affected by short-term and long-term interest rates, the prevailing yield curve, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in the debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the domestic economy and the local economies in the markets in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control.. We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but also (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans, securities and other interest-earning investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Changes in interest rates, whether they are increases or decreases, can also trigger repricing and changes in the pace of payments for both assets and liabilities.. In addition, an increase in interest rates could have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations. These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the allowance for loan losses which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Capital and liquidity standards require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.  Capital standards, particularly those adopted as a result of Dodd-Frank, continue to have a significant effect on banks and bank holding companies, including Arrow.  Certain of the remedial measures contained in Dodd-Frank, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, may be reconsidered at the federal legislative and regulatory levels as a result of the political environment and developments.  Certain legislation being considered proposes changes to the revised and enhanced regulatory capital standards mandated by Dodd-Frank.  However, the likelihood of such potential changes becoming law and any potential impact of such changes on Arrow is uncertain.  Thus, the enhanced bank capital standards promulgated under Dodd-Frank will remain in effect (absent such changes), requiring bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases.. Any future economic or financial downturn, including any significant correction in the equity markets, may negatively affect the volume of income attributable to, and demand for, fee-based services of banks such as ours, including our fiduciary business, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operation.  Revenues from our trust and wealth management business are dependent on the level of assets under management.  Any significant downturn in the equity markets may lead our trust and wealth management customers to liquidate their investments, or may diminish account values for those customers who elect to leave their portfolios with us, in either case reducing our assets under management and thereby decreasing our revenues from this important sector of our business.  Our other fee-based businesses are also susceptible to a sudden economic or financial downturn.. In addition, our loan quality is affected by the condition of the economy.  Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses at the balance sheet date.  Our allowance for loan losses is based on our historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size and composition of the. #. 14. portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio and other factors.  While we have continued to enjoy a very high level of quality in our loan portfolio generally and very low levels of loan charge-offs and non-performing loans, if the economy in our geographic market area should deteriorate to the point that recessionary conditions return, or if the regional or national economy experiences a protracted period of stagnation, the quality of our loan portfolio may weaken so significantly that our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual or expected loan losses. In such events, we may be required to increase our provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect financial results.  Moreover, weak or worsening economic conditions often lead to difficulties in other areas of our business, including growth of our business generally, thereby compounding the negative effects on earnings.. We face continuing and growing security risks to our information base including the information we maintain relating to our customers, and any breaches in the security systems we have implemented to protect this information could have a material negative effect on our business operations and financial condition.  In the ordinary course of business, Arrow relies on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our operations and to store sensitive data. Arrow employs an in-depth, layered, defensive approach that leverages people, processes and technology to manage and maintain cybersecurity controls. Arrow employs a variety of preventative and detective tools to monitor, block, and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity, as well as to report on any suspected advanced persistent threats. We have implemented and regularly review and update extensive systems of internal controls and procedures as well as corporate governance policies and procedures intended to protect our business operations, including the security and privacy of all confidential customer information.  In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs.  No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we cannot provide an absolute guarantee to protect our business operations from every type of cybersecurity or other security problem in every situation.  A failure or circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.  Notwithstanding the strength of our defensive measures, the threat from cyber attacks is severe, attacks are sophisticated and increasing in volume, and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. While to date, Arrow has not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss or any material financial losses related to cybersecurity attacks, our systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers are under constant threat. Risks and exposures related to cybersecurity attacks are expected to remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of these threats, as well as due to the expanding use of Internet banking, mobile banking and other technology-based products and services by us and our customers.. The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use are always vulnerable to unforeseen disruptions, including theft of confidential customer information (\"identity theft\") and interruption of service as a result of fire, natural disasters, explosion, general infrastructure failure or cyber attacks.  These disruptions may arise in our internally developed systems, or the systems of our third-party service providers or may originate from the actions of our consumer and business customers who access our systems from their own networks or digital devices to process transactions.  Information security and cyber security risks have increased significantly in recent years because of consumer demand to use the Internet and other electronic delivery channels to conduct financial transactions.  Cybersecurity risk is a major concern to financial services regulators and all financial service providers, including our company.  These risks are further exacerbated due to the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other disreputable parties.  We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating.  As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks or unauthorized access remain a priority.  Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Any breach of our system security could result in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, significant regulatory costs, litigation exposure and other possible damages, loss or liability. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of available insurance coverage, if any, and would adversely affect our earnings. Also, any failure to prevent a security breach or to quickly and effectively deal with such a breach could negatively impact customer confidence, damaging our reputation and undermining our ability to attract and keep customers.  In addition, if we fail to observe any of the cybersecurity requirements in federal or state laws, regulations or regulatory guidance, we could be subject to various sanctions, including financial penalties.. The Company relies on the operations of our banking subsidiaries to provide liquidity which, if limited, could impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders or to repurchase our common stock.  We are a bank holding company, a separate legal entity from our subsidiaries.  Our bank holding company does not have significant operations of its own. The ability of our subsidiaries, including our bank and insurance subsidiaries, to pay dividends is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of our subsidiaries and other factors, that our subsidiaries might be restricted at some point in their ability to pay dividends to the holding company, including by a bank regulator asserting that the payment of such dividends or other payments would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under Dodd-Frank, we are subject to consolidated capital requirements at the holding company level. If our holding company or its bank subsidiaries are required to retain or increase capital, we may not be able to maintain our cash dividends or pay dividends at all, or to repurchase shares of our common stock.. #. 15. Changes in federal, state or local tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.  As in the case of the Tax Act, we are subject to changes in tax law that could impact our effective tax rates.  These law changes may be retroactive to previous periods and as a result could negatively affect our current and future financial performance.  Similarly, the bank's customers are likely to experience varying effects from both the individual and business tax provisions of changes in tax law and such effects, whether positive or negative, may have a corresponding impact on our business and the economy as a whole.. Changes in accounting standards may materially and negatively impact our financial statements.  From time-to-time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial statements.  Specifically, changes in the fair value of our financial assets could have a significant negative impact on our asset portfolios and indirectly on our capital levels.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as Internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution.  The financial health and operational capabilities of these third parties are for the most part beyond our control, and any problems experienced by these third parties, such that they may not be able to continue to provide services to us or to perform such services consistent with our expectations, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and to conduct our business.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas that could negatively affect our growth and profitability.  Competition for commercial banking and other financial services is fierce in our market areas. In one or more aspects of business, our subsidiaries compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, Internet-based financial services companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Additionally, due to their size and other factors, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for those products and services, than we can.  Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems.  In addition, many of our competitors are not subject to the same extensive Federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and Federally insured banks.  Failure to offer competitive services in our market areas could significantly weaken our market position, adversely affecting our growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If economic conditions worsen and the U.S. financial markets should suffer a downturn, we may experience limited access to credit markets.  As discussed under Part I, Item 7.D.  \"Liquidity,\" we maintain borrowing relationships with various third parties that enable us to obtain from them, on relatively short notice, overnight and longer-term funds sufficient to enable us to fulfill our obligations to customers, including deposit withdrawals.  If, in the context of a downturn in the U.S. economy or financial markets, these third parties should encounter difficulty in accessing their own credit markets, we may, in turn, experience a decrease in our capacity to borrow funds from them or other third parties traditionally relied upon by banks for liquidity.. Rulemaking under Dodd-Frank could change in the future; these and other regulations being promulgated may adversely affect our Company and certain players in the financial industry as a whole.  We are subject to extensive Federal and state banking regulations and supervision.  Banking laws and regulations are intended primarily to protect bank depositors' funds (and indirectly the Federal deposit insurance funds) as well as bank retail customers, who may lack the sophistication to understand or appreciate bank products and services.  These laws and regulations generally are not, however, aimed at protecting or enhancing the returns on investment enjoyed by bank shareholders.. Our depositor/customer awareness of the changing regulatory environment is particularly true of the set of laws and regulations under Dodd-Frank, which were passed in the aftermath of the 2008-2009 financial crisis and in large part were intended to better protect bank customers (and to some degree, banks) against a wide variety of lending products and aggressive lending practices that pre-dated the crisis and are seen as having contributed to its severity.  Although not all banks offered such products or engaged in such practices, all banks are affected by these laws and regulations to some degree.. Dodd-Frank restricts our lending practices, requires us to expend substantial additional resources to safeguard customers, significantly increases our regulatory burden, and subjects us to significantly higher minimum capital requirements which, in the long run, may serve as a drag on our earnings, growth and ultimately on our dividends and stock price (the new capital standards are separately addressed in a previous risk factor).. #. 16. Our business could suffer if we lose key personnel unexpectedly or if employee wages increase significantly.  Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our key personnel for the duration of their expected terms of service.  On an ongoing basis, we prepare and review back-up plans, in the event key personnel are unexpectedly rendered incapable of performing or depart or resign from their positions.  However, any sudden unexpected change at the senior management level may adversely affect our business.  In addition, should our industry begin to experience a shortage of qualified employees, we like other financial institutions may have difficulty attracting and retaining entry level or higher bracket personnel and also may experience, as a result of such shortages or the enactment of higher minimum wage laws locally or nationwide, increased salary expense, which would likely negatively impact our results of operations.. Problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by financial or commercial problems confronting other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships.  We have exposure to many different counterparties in the normal course of our business, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, other commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other financial institutions on whom we rely or with whom we interact.  Some of these transactions expose us to credit and other potential risks in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or only may be liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due us under the underlying financial instrument, held by us.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our industry is faced with technological advances and changes on a continuing basis, and failure to adapt to these advances and changes could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Technological advances and changes in the financial services industry are pervasive and constant.  The retail financial services sector, like many other retail goods and services sectors, is constantly evolving, involving new delivery and communications systems and technologies that are extraordinarily far-reaching and impactful. For us to remain competitive, we must comprehend and adapt to these systems and technologies .  Proper implementation of new technologies can increase efficiency, decrease costs and help to meet customer demand.  However, many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological advances and changes.  We may not always be successful in utilizing the latest technological advances in offering our products and services or in otherwise conducting our business.  Failure to identify, consider, adapt to and implement technological advances and changes could have a material adverse effect on our business."
