[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Described below and throughout this report are certain risks that the company's management believes are applicable to the company's business and the industries in which it operates.  If any of the described events occur, the company's business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected.  When stated below that a risk may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, it means that such risk may have one or more of these effects.  There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known.  There are also risks within the economy, the industry, and the capital markets that could materially adversely affect the company, including those associated with an economic recession, inflation, a global economic slowdown, political instability, employee attraction and retention, and those associated with customers' inability or refusal to pay for the products and services provided by the company. There are also risks associated with the occurrence of natural disasters such as tsunamis, hurricanes, tornadoes, and floods. These factors affect businesses generally, including the company's customers and suppliers and, as a result, are not discussed in detail below except to the extent such conditions could materially affect the company and its customers and suppliers in particular ways. Included below are some risks pertaining to specific government regulation, however, not all regulations applicable to the company or unanticipated regulation changes (such as changes in tax regulations in the various geographies we operate) have been described. The continuing expansion of government laws and regulations, some that may apply specifically to the company's industry and others to the market generally, as well as any actions taken by activist investors, could negatively impact the company's profitability.. If the company is unable to maintain its relationships with its suppliers or if the suppliers materially change the terms of their existing agreements with the company, the company's business could be materially adversely affected.. A substantial portion of the company's inventory is purchased from suppliers with which the company has entered into non-exclusive distribution agreements.  These agreements are typically cancelable on short notice (generally 30 to 90 days). Some of the company's businesses rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide a high percentage of their revenues. For example, sales of products from one of the company's suppliers accounted for approximately 7.8% of the company's consolidated sales. To the extent that the company's significant suppliers reduce the number of products they sell through distribution, are unwilling to continue to do business with the company, or are unable to continue to meet or significantly alter their obligations, the company's business could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, to the extent that the company's suppliers modify the terms of their contracts to the detriment of the company, limit supplies due to capacity constraints, or other factors, there could be a material adverse effect on the company's business. Further, the supplier landscape has experienced a consolidation, which could negatively impact the company if the surviving, consolidated suppliers decide to exclude the company from their supply chain efforts.. The competitive pressures the company faces could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. The company operates in a highly competitive international environment. The company competes with other large multinational and national electronic components and enterprise computing solutions distributors, as well as numerous other smaller, specialized competitors who generally focus on narrower markets, products, industries, or particular sectors. The company also competes for customers with its suppliers. The size of the company's competitors vary across market sectors, as do the resources the company has allocated to the sectors in which it does business. Therefore, some of the company's competitors may have a more extensive customer and/or supplier base than the company in one or more of its market sectors. There is significant competition within each market sector and geography that creates pricing pressure and the need for constant attention to improve services. Other competitive factors include rapid technological changes, product availability, credit availability, speed of delivery, ability to tailor solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines and training, as well as service and support provided by the distributor to the customer.  The company also faces competition from companies in the logistics and product fulfillment, catalog distribution, and e-commerce supply chain services markets. As the company continues to expand its business into new areas in order to stay competitive in the market, such as in the area of the \"Internet of Things\" and its expansion in the digital market, the company may encounter increased competition from its current and/or new competitors. The company's failure to maintain and enhance its competitive position could have a material adverse effect on its business.. The company was the victim of fraud and may not be able to adequately anticipate, prevent, or mitigate damage resulting from criminal and other illegal or fraudulent activities committed against it.. The company determined that it was the target of criminal fraud by persons impersonating a company executive, which resulted in unauthorized transfers of cash from a company account in Europe to outside bank accounts in Asia in January 2016.   This was an isolated event not associated with a security breach or loss of data.  The company determined that its internal controls did not operate effectively to prevent or timely detect the unauthorized cash disbursements.  As a result, company management initiated a thorough and detailed remediation plan.  The company does not believe that these deficiencies had an adverse effect on its reported operating results or financial condition.. 7. It is clear that global businesses like ours are facing increasing risks of criminal, illegal, and other fraudulent acts.  The evolving nature of such threats, in light of new and sophisticated methods used by criminals, including phishing, misrepresentation, social engineering and forgery, are making it increasingly difficult for us to anticipate and adequately mitigate these risks. In addition, designing and implementing measures to defend against, prevent, and detect these types of activities are increasingly costly and invasive into the operations of the business.  As a result, we could experience a material loss in the future to the extent that controls and other measures we implement to address these threats fail to prevent or detect such acts.. Products sold by the company may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against the company, which may have a material adverse effect on the company.. The company sells its components at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. As a result, the company may face claims for damages (such as consequential damages) that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits it receives from the components involved in the claims.  While the company typically has provisions in its supplier agreements that hold the supplier accountable for defective products, and the company and its suppliers generally exclude consequential damages in their standard terms and conditions, the company's ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited as a result of differing factors, such as the inability to exclude such damages due to the laws of some of the countries where it does business.  The company's business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the products sold by the company, if it is required to pay for the associated damages.  Although the company currently has product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. Further, when relying on contractual liability exclusions, the company could lose customers if their claims are not addressed to their satisfaction.. Declines in value and other factors pertaining to the company's inventory could materially adversely affect its business.. The market for the company's products and services is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in end-market demand, oversupply of product, and regulatory requirements, which can contribute to the decline in value or obsolescence of inventory.  Although most of the company's suppliers provide the company with certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection and certain rights of return), the company cannot be sure that such protections will fully compensate it for the loss in value, or that the suppliers will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements.  For example, many of the company's suppliers will not allow products to be returned after they have been held in inventory beyond a certain amount of time, and, in most instances, the return rights are limited to a certain percentage of the amount of product the company purchased in a particular time frame.  All of these factors pertaining to inventory could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. The company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect its business.. A number of jurisdictions in which the company's products are sold have enacted laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of the company's products and impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters.  Failure to comply with these laws or any other applicable environmental regulations could result in fines or suspension of sales.  Additionally, these directives and regulations may result in the company having non-compliant inventory that may be less readily salable or have to be written off.. Some environmental laws impose liability, sometimes without fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination on or emanating from the company's currently or formerly owned, leased, or operated property, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination.  As the distribution business, in general, does not involve the manufacture of products, it is typically not subject to significant liability in this area.  However, there may be occasions, including through acquisitions, where environmental liability arises. Two sites for which the company assumed responsibility as part of the Wyle Electronics (\"Wyle\") acquisition are known to have environmental issues, one at Norco, California and the other at Huntsville, Alabama.  The company was also named as a defendant in a private lawsuit filed in connection with alleged contamination at a small industrial building formerly leased by Wyle Laboratories in El Segundo, California.  The lawsuit was settled, but the possibility remains that government entities or others may attempt to involve the company in further characterization or remediation of groundwater issues in the area.  The presence of environmental contamination could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect the company's ability to sell or lease its properties.  The discovery of contamination for which the company is responsible, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced, could require the company to incur costs for compliance or subject it to unexpected liabilities.. 8. Expansion into the electronic asset disposition market has broadened the company's risk profile.. The company provides services related to electronic devices being disposed of by business customers. These services include, the data sanitation of storage devices from customer equipment and either recycling the equipment through resale or disposing of it in an environmentally compliant manner.  The company may also hold equipment in order to protect and preserve customer data.  If the company does not meet its contractual and regulatory obligations with respect to such data, it could be subject to financial damages, penalties, and damage to reputation.  Also, the company's or its subcontractors' failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in disposing of the equipment could result in liability.  Such environmental liability may be joint and several, meaning that the company could be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved.   To the extent that company fails to comply with its obligations and such failure is not covered by insurance, the company's business could be adversely affected.. The company may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital resources.. The company requires cash or committed liquidity facilities for general corporate purposes, such as funding its ongoing working capital, acquisitions, and capital expenditure needs, as well as to refinance indebtedness.  At December 31, 2017, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $730.1 million.  In addition, the company currently has access to committed credit lines of $1.8 billion and a committed asset securitization program of $910.0 million, of which the company had outstanding borrowings of $490.0 million at December 31, 2017. The company's ability to satisfy its cash needs depends on its ability to generate cash from operations and to access the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond its control.. The company may, in the future, need to access the financial markets to satisfy its cash needs.  The company's ability to obtain external financing is affected by various factors including general financial market conditions and the company's debt ratings.  Further, any increase in the company's level of debt, change in status of its debt from unsecured to secured debt, or deterioration of its operating results may cause a reduction in its current debt ratings. Any downgrade in the company's current debt rating or tightening of credit availability could impair the company's ability to obtain additional financing or renew existing credit facilities on acceptable terms.  Under the terms of any external financing, the company may incur higher financing expenses and become subject to additional restrictions and covenants. For example, the company's existing debt agreements contain restrictive covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios, and a failure to comply with these or any other covenants may result in an event of default.  The company's lack of access to cost-effective capital resources, an increase in the company's financing costs, or a breach of debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. The agreements governing some of the company's financing arrangements contain various covenants and restrictions that limit some of management's discretion in operating the business and could prevent the company from engaging in some activities that may be beneficial to its business.. The agreements governing the company's financings contain various covenants and restrictions that, in certain circumstances, could limit its ability to:. • grant liens on assets;. • make investments;. • merge, consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets;. • incur additional debt; or. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, the company may be limited in how it conducts its business and may be unable to raise additional debt, compete effectively, or make investments.. The company's failure to have long-term sales contracts may have a material adverse effect on its business.. Most of the company's sales are made on an order-by-order basis, rather than through long-term sales contracts.  The company generally works with its customers to develop non-binding forecasts for future orders.  Based on such non-binding forecasts, the company makes commitments regarding the level of business that it will seek and accept, the inventory that it purchases, and the levels of utilization of personnel and other resources.  A variety of conditions, both specific to each customer and generally affecting each customer's industry may cause customers to cancel, reduce, or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated, file for bankruptcy protection or fail, or default on their payments.  Generally, customers cancel, reduce, or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty.  The company seeks to mitigate these risks, in some cases, by entering into noncancelable/nonreturnable sales agreements, but there is no guarantee that such agreements will adequately protect the company.  Significant. 9. or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in orders by customers, loss of customers, and/or customer defaults on payments could materially adversely affect the company's business.. The company's revenues originate primarily from the sales of semiconductor, PEMCO (passive, electro-mechanical and interconnect), IT hardware and software products, the sales of which are traditionally cyclical.. The semiconductor industry historically has experienced fluctuations in product supply and demand, often associated with changes in technology and manufacturing capacity and subject to significant economic market upturns and downturns.  Sales of semiconductor products and related services represented approximately 46%, 42%, and 41% of the company's consolidated sales in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  The sale of the company's PEMCO products closely tracks the semiconductor market.  Accordingly, the company's revenues and profitability, particularly in its global components business segment, tend to closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor market.  Further, economic weakness could cause a decline in spending in information technology, which could have a negative impact on the company's ECS business. A cyclical downturn in the technology industry could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and negatively impact its ability to maintain historical profitability levels.. The company's non-U.S. sales represent a significant portion of its revenues, and consequently, the company is exposed to risks associated with operating internationally.. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, approximately 58%, 56%, and 54%, respectively, of the company's sales came from its operations outside the United States.  As a result of the company's international sales and locations, its operations are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:. • import and export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports;. • the burden and cost of compliance with international laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations;. • potential restrictions on transfers of funds;. • import and export duties and value-added taxes;. • transportation delays and interruptions;. • the burden and cost of compliance with complex multi-national tax laws and regulations;. • uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations;. • enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws of other jurisdictions;. • foreign laws that potentially discriminate against companies which are headquartered outside that jurisdiction;. • volatility associated with sovereign debt of certain international economies;. • the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effects of Brexit;. • potential military conflicts and political risks; and. • currency fluctuations, which the company attempts to minimize through traditional hedging instruments.. Furthermore, products the company sells which are either manufactured in the United States or based on U.S. technology (\"U.S. Products\") are subject to the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") when exported and re-exported to and from all international jurisdictions, in addition to the local jurisdiction's export regulations applicable to individual shipments.  Licenses or proper license exemptions may be required by local jurisdictions' export regulations, including EAR, for the shipment of certain U.S. Products to certain countries, including China, India, Russia, and other countries in which the company operates.  Non-compliance with the EAR or other applicable export regulations can result in a wide range of penalties including the denial of export privileges, fines, criminal penalties, and the seizure of inventories.  In the event that any export regulatory body determines that any shipments made by the company violate the applicable export regulations, the company could be fined significant sums and/or its export capabilities could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. Also, the company's gross margins in the components business in the Asia/Pacific region tend to be lower than those in the other markets in which the company sells products and services.  If sales in this market increase as a percentage of overall sales, consolidated gross margins will be lower.  The financial impact of lower gross profit on returns on working capital is offset, in part, by lower working capital requirements.  While the company has and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business abroad, it cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on its business.. Certain tax policy efforts, including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (\"OECD\") Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") Project, the European Commission's state aid investigations, and other initiatives could have an adverse effect on the taxation of international businesses. Furthermore, many of the countries where we are subject to taxes are independently evaluating their tax policy and some have already passed tax legislation which affect international businesses.  For. 10. instance, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted tax legislation (\"Tax Act\"), which significantly changed the existing tax laws by favorably reducing the corporate federal tax rate (35% to 21%) and moving to a territorial system, while simultaneously imposing an unfavorable one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings, limiting deductibility of certain import related costs, including interest expense, and creating a new tax on certain international activities. Such tax changes, to the extent they are brought into tax legislation, regulations, policies, or practices, could increase our effective tax rates in many of the countries where we have operations and have an adverse effect on our overall tax rate, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance, all of which could impact our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition.. When the company makes acquisitions, it may take on additional liabilities or not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions.. As part of the company's history and growth strategy, it has acquired other businesses.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • effectively combining the acquired operations, technologies, or products;. • unanticipated costs or assumed liabilities, including those associated with regulatory actions or investigations;. • not realizing the anticipated financial benefit from the acquired companies;. • diversion of management's attention;. • negative effects on existing customer and supplier relationships; and. • potential loss of key employees, especially those of the acquired companies.. Further, the company has made, and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in new services, businesses or technologies to expand its current service offerings and product lines.  Some of these may involve risks that may differ from those traditionally associated with the company's core distribution business, including undertaking product or service warranty responsibilities that in its traditional core business would generally reside primarily with its suppliers. If the company is not successful in mitigating or insuring against such risks, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.. The company's goodwill and identifiable intangible assets could become impaired, which could reduce the value of its assets and reduce its net income in the year in which the write-off occurs.. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the assets acquired.  The company also ascribes value to certain identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and trade names, among others, as a result of acquisitions.  The company may incur impairment charges on goodwill or identifiable intangible assets if it determines that the fair values of the goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are less than their current carrying values.  The company evaluates, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to earnings would become necessary.. Refer to Notes 1 and 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 'Critical Accounting Policies' in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of the impairment testing of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.. A decline in general economic conditions or global equity valuations could impact the judgments and assumptions about the fair value of the company's businesses and the company could be required to record impairment charges on its goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets in the future, which could impact the company's consolidated balance sheet, as well as the company's consolidated statement of operations. If the company is required to recognize an impairment charge in the future, the charge would not impact the company's consolidated cash flows, current liquidity, or capital resources.. If the company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discovers material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to report its financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the company to produce reliable financial reports, safeguard assets, and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud.  The company is required to annually evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of its internal controls over financial reporting.  Based on these evaluations, the company may conclude that enhancements, modifications, or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable.  While management evaluates the effectiveness of the company's internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective.  There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment.  In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate financial statement risk.  If the company fails to. 11. maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or the company's independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in the company's internal controls, it may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business.  In addition, the company may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE.  Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the company's financial statements, which could cause the market price of its common stock to decline or limit the company's access to capital.. Cyber security and privacy breaches may hurt the company's business, damage its reputation, increase its costs, and cause losses.. The company's information technology systems could be subject to invasion, cyber-attack, or data privacy breaches by employees, others with authorized access, and unauthorized persons. Such attacks could result in disruption to the company's operations, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, the company's or any of its customer's or supplier's data or confidential information. The company's information technology systems security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or suppliers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the company's data and information technology systems. Any such breach could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the company's reputation, loss of competitive advantage, and a loss of confidence in the security of the company's information technology systems that could potentially have an impact on the company's business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade, or sabotage the company's information technology systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched, the company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures.  Further, third parties, such as hosted solution providers, that provide services for the company's operations, could also be a source of security risk in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that the company procures from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the company's information technology systems. Although the company has developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Such breaches, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in the company incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps.. Also, global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance environment. The company's failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others.  Although the company has insurance coverage for protecting against loss from cyber security risks, it may not be sufficient to cover all possible claims, and the company may suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on its business.. The company relies heavily on its internal information systems, which, if not properly functioning, could materially adversely affect the company's business.. The company's current global operations reside on multiple technology platforms.  The size and complexity of the company's computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and random attack.. In January 2018, the company completed the process of implementing a global enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system to standardize its global components processes worldwide and adopt best-in-class capabilities.  The company has committed significant resources to this new ERP system, which replaces multiple legacy systems of the company.  This conversion has been extremely complex, in part, because of the wide range of processes and the multiple legacy systems that must be integrated globally.  The company used a controlled project plan that it believes will provide for the adequate allocation of resources and appropriate support.  To date, the company has not experienced any identifiable significant issues. However, there may be negative implications of which the company is not yet aware.  Failure to properly or adequately address any such issues could impact the company's ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially adversely affect the company's business.. The company may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require payment of damages or licensing fees and could limit the company's ability to use certain technologies in the future.. Certain of the company's products and services include intellectual property owned primarily by the company's third party suppliers and, to a lesser extent, the company itself.  Substantial litigation and threats of litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in the semiconductor/integrated circuit, software and some service industries.  From time to time, third parties (including certain companies in the business of acquiring patents not for the purpose of developing technology but with the intention of aggressively seeking licensing revenue from purported infringers) may assert patent, copyright and/or other intellectual property rights to. 12. technologies that are important to the company's business.   In some cases, depending on the nature of the claim, the company may be able to seek indemnification from its suppliers for itself and its customers against such claims, but there is no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining such indemnification or that the company is fully protected against such claims.  In addition, the company is exposed to potential liability for technology that it develops itself or combines multiple technologies of its suppliers for which it may have limited or no indemnification protections.  In any dispute involving products or services that incorporate intellectual property from multiple sources or is developed, licensed by the company, or obtained through acquisition, the company's customers could also become the targets of litigation.  The company is obligated in many instances to indemnify and defend its customers if the products or services the company sells are alleged to infringe any third party's intellectual property rights.  Any infringement claim brought against the company, regardless of the duration, outcome, or size of damage award, could:. • result in substantial cost to the company;. • divert management's attention and resources;. • be time consuming to defend;. • result in substantial damage awards; or. • cause product shipment delays.. Additionally, if an infringement claim is successful, the company may be required to pay damages or seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms.  The payment of any such damages or royalties may significantly increase the company's operating expenses and harm the company's operating results and financial condition.  Also, royalty or license arrangements may not be available at all.  The company may have to stop selling certain products or using technologies, which could affect the company's ability to compete effectively.. Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" may result in increased costs and risks to the company.. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Act\"), the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, known as conflict minerals.  The disclosure rules were effective in May 2014.  The company must publicly disclose the process it took to determine whether it manufactures (as defined in the Act) any products that contain conflict minerals.  Customers typically rely on the company to provide critical data regarding the parts they purchase, including conflict mineral information.  The company's material sourcing is broad-based and multi-tiered, and it is not able to easily verify the origins for conflict minerals used in all of the products it sells.  The company has many suppliers and each provides conflict mineral information in a different manner, if at all.  Accordingly, because the supply chain is complex, the company may face reputational challenges if it is unable to sufficiently verify the origins of conflict minerals used in its products.  Additionally, customers may demand that the products they purchase be free of conflict minerals.  This may limit the number of suppliers that can provide products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand or at competitive prices."
