[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Relating to our Business Generally. An overall economic downturn, as well as unstable economic conditions in the countries and regions in which we operate, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. An overall decline in economic activity could adversely impact us in future years as a result of reductions in the overall amount of consulting services and insurance coverage that our clients purchase due to reductions in their headcount, payroll, properties, and the market values of assets, among other factors. Such reductions could also adversely impact future commission revenues when the underwriting enterprises perform exposure audits if they lead to subsequent downward premium adjustments. We record the commission income effects of subsequent premium adjustments when the adjustments become known and, as a result, any downturn or improvement in our results of operations and financial condition may lag a downturn or improvement in the economy. Some of our clients may experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties in the event of a prolonged deterioration in the economy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our clients become financially less stable, enter bankruptcy, liquidate their operations or consolidate, our revenues and collectability of receivables could be adversely affected. Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risk even when economic activity is strong in the U.S. For example, our operations in the U.K., which contributed approximately 18% of our brokerage segment and approximately 4% of our risk management segment revenues in 2017, expose us to risk in the event of an economic downturn in the U.K. due to Brexit.. Economic conditions that result in financial difficulties for underwriting enterprises or lead to reduced risk-taking capital capacity could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have a significant amount of trade accounts receivable from some of the underwriting enterprises with which we place insurance. If those companies experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The failure of an underwriting enterprise with which we place business could result in errors and omissions claims against us by our clients, and the failure of errors and omissions underwriting enterprises could make the errors and omissions insurance we rely upon cost prohibitive or unavailable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if underwriting enterprises merge or if a large underwriting enterprise fails or withdraws from offering certain lines of coverage, overall risk-taking capital capacity could be negatively affected, which could reduce our ability to place certain lines of coverage and, as a result, reduce our revenues and profitability.. Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry may seriously undermine our profitability.. We derive much of our revenue from commissions and fees for our brokerage services. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Moreover, insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. Because of market cycles for insurance product pricing, which we cannot predict or control, our brokerage revenues and profitability can be volatile or remain depressed for significant periods of time.. As underwriting enterprises continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, those companies may seek to further minimize their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to precisely forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations.. In addition, there have been and may continue to be various trends in the insurance industry toward alternative insurance markets including, among other things, greater levels of self-insurance, captives, rent-a-captives, risk retention groups and non-insurance capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance. While historically we have been able to participate in certain of these activities on behalf of our clients and obtain fee revenue for such services, there can be no assurance that we will realize revenues and profitability as favorable as those realized from our traditional brokerage activities. Our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may also be challenged by the growing desire of some clients to compensate brokers based upon flat fees rather than variable commission rates. This could negatively impact us because fees are generally not indexed for inflation and do not automatically increase with premiums as commissions do.. 12. Table of Contents. Contingent and supplemental revenues we receive from underwriting enterprises are less predictable than standard commission revenues, and any decrease in the amount of these forms of revenue could adversely affect our results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues consists of contingent and supplemental revenues from underwriting enterprises. Contingent revenues are paid after the insurance contract period, generally in the first or second quarter, based on the growth and/or profitability of business we placed with an underwriting enterprise during the prior year. On the other hand, supplemental revenues are paid up front, on an annual or quarterly basis, generally based on our historical premium volumes with the underwriting enterprise and additional capabilities or services we bring to the engagement. If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, we are unable to meet an underwriting enterprise's particular profitability, volume or growth thresholds, as the case may be, or such companies increase their estimate of loss reserves (over which we have no control), actual contingent revenues or supplemental revenues could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In the case of contingent revenues, under the new revenue recognition accounting standard, which is effective January 1, 2018, this could lead to the reversal of revenues in future periods that were recognized in prior periods (See Note 2 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for more information).. We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses.. The insurance brokerage and employee benefit consulting businesses are highly competitive and many insurance brokerage and employee benefit consulting organizations actively compete with us in one or more areas of our business around the world. We compete with three firms in the global risk management and brokerage markets that have revenues significantly larger than ours. In addition, many other smaller firms that operate nationally or that are strong in a particular country, region or locality may have, in that country, region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our corresponding local office. Our third party claims administration operation also faces significant competition from stand-alone firms as well as divisions of larger firms.. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the individual and corporate expertise of the brokers and consultants providing the actual service to the client and our ability to help our clients manage their overall insurance costs. Losing business to competitors offering similar products at a lower cost or having other competitive advantages would adversely affect our business.. In addition, any increase in competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include:. <U+0095>    Increased capital-raising by underwriting enterprises, which could result in new risk-taking capital in the industry, which in turn may lead to lower insurance premiums and commissions;. <U+0095>    Underwriting enterprises selling insurance directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other intermediary;. <U+0095>    Changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory developments;. <U+0095>    Federal and state governments establishing programs to provide health insurance or, in certain cases, property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other alternative market types of coverage, that compete with, or completely replace, insurance products currently offered by underwriting enterprises; and. <U+0095>    Increased competition from new market participants such as banks, accounting firms, consulting firms and Internet or other technology firms offering risk management or insurance brokerage services, or new distribution channels for insurance such as payroll firms.. New competition as a result of these or other competitive or industry developments could cause the demand for our products and services to decrease, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. If we are unable to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools, our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs could be adversely affected.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technology change. The threat may come from established market participants through disintermediation as well as from new entrants. We must also develop and implement technology solutions and technical expertise among our employees that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, client preferences and internal control standards. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies or product offerings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs.. In some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. If these third parties fail to perform their obligations or cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected.. Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is one of our key assets. We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, ability to protect client information, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these or other matters, including our association with clients or business partners who themselves have a damaged reputation, or from actual or alleged conduct by us or our employees, could damage our reputation. Any resulting erosion of trust and confidence among existing and potential clients, regulators, stockholders and other parties important to the success of our business could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and maintain existing ones, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefit consulting firms and, to a lesser extent, claim and risk management firms. We may not be able to continue such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations.. Our acquisition program has been an important part of our historical growth, particularly in our brokerage segment, and we believe that similar acquisition activity will be important to maintaining comparable growth in the future. Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions likely would result in us achieving slower growth. Continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms and private equity-backed consolidators could make it more difficult for us to identify appropriate targets and could make them more expensive. Even if we are able to identify appropriate acquisition targets, we may not have sufficient capital to fund acquisitions, be able to execute transactions on favorable terms or integrate targets in a manner that allows us to realize the benefits we have historically experienced from acquisitions. When regulatory approval of acquisitions is required, our ability to complete acquisitions may be limited by an ongoing regulatory review or other issues with the relevant regulator. Our ability to finance and integrate acquisitions may also decrease if we complete a greater number of large acquisitions than we have historically.. Post-acquisition risks include those relating to retention of personnel, retention of clients, entry into unfamiliar markets or lines of business, contingencies or liabilities, such as violations of sanctions laws or anti-corruption laws including the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act, risks relating to ensuring compliance with licensing and regulatory requirements, tax and accounting issues, the risk that the acquisition distracts management and personnel from our existing business, and integration difficulties relating to accounting, information technology, human resources, or organizational culture and fit, some or all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth. The failure of acquisition targets to achieve anticipated revenue and earnings levels could also result in goodwill impairment charges.. We own interests in firms where we do not exercise management control (such as Casanueva Perez S.A.P. de C.V. in Mexico) and are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits, including mitigation of risks, that could be achieved through full integration.. 14. Table of Contents. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain both new talent and experienced personnel, including our senior management, brokers and other key personnel. In addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. The insurance brokerage industry has experienced intense competition for the services of leading brokers, and in the past we have lost key brokers and groups of brokers, along with their client and business relationships, to competitors. Such departures could lead to the loss of clients and intellectual property. The loss of our chief executive officer or any of our other senior managers, brokers or other key personnel (including the key personnel that manage our interests in our IRC Section 45 investments), or our inability to identify, recruit and retain highly skilled personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks different than those we face in the U.S.. In 2017, we generated approximately 31% of our combined brokerage and risk management revenues outside the U.S., including in countries where the risk of political and economic uncertainty is relatively greater than that present in the U.S. and more stable countries. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Adverse geopolitical or economic conditions may temporarily or permanently disrupt our operations in these countries or create difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. For example, we have substantial operations in India to provide certain back-office services. To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region, incidents of terrorism in India and general geopolitical uncertainties have not adversely affected our operations in India. However, such factors could potentially affect our operations there in the future. Should our access to these services be disrupted, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Operating outside the U.S. may also present other risks that are different from, or greater than, the risks we face doing comparable business in the U.S. These include, among others, risks relating to:. <U+0095>    Maintaining awareness of and complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues, as well as laws and regulations applicable to U.S. business operations abroad. These and other international regulatory risks are described below under \"Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks;\". <U+0095>    The potential costs, difficulties and risks associated with local regulations across the globe, including the risk of personal liability for directors and officers and \"piercing the corporate veil\" risks under the corporate law regimes of certain countries;. <U+0095>    Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. For example we built our South American operations (which contributed $28.4 million in revenue from six locations in 2017) through acquisitions of local family-owned insurance brokerage firms, and if we lost a local leader, recruiting a local replacement for such leader, or finding an internal candidate qualified to transfer to such location, could be difficult;. <U+0095>    Less flexible employee relationships, which may limit our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after they are no longer employed with us or recovering damages in the event they do so, and may make it more difficult and expensive to terminate their employment;. <U+0095>    Political and economic instability (including risks relating to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments, acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war);. <U+0095>    Coordinating our communications and logistics across geographic distances, multiple time zones and in different languages, including during times of crisis management;. <U+0095>    Adverse trade policies, and adverse changes to any of the policies of the U.S. or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate;. <U+0095>    Unfavorable audits and exposure to additional liabilities relating to various non-income taxes (such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes) in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, discriminatory or confiscatory taxation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and the financial results of our international subsidiaries. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued reports and recommendations as part of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (BEPS), and in response many countries in which we do business are expected to adopt rules which may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined. For example, in response to BEPS, the U.K. adopted rules in 2016 that affect the deductibility of interest paid on intercompany debt, and other jurisdictions where we operate, including Australia and New Zealand, may do so as well in the near future;. <U+0095>    Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices;. <U+0095>    Cash balances held in foreign banks and institutions where governments have not specifically enacted formal guarantee programs;. 15. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    Lost business or other financial harm due to governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services and currency, including protectionist policies that discriminate in favor of local competitors; and. <U+0095>    Governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the U.S.. The foreign and international trade policies of the current U.S. presidential administration could develop in ways that exacerbate the risks described above, or introduce new risks for our international operations. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations.. A substantial portion of our business is located outside the U.S. Some of our foreign subsidiaries receive revenues or incur obligations in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. We must also translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Although we have used foreign currency hedging strategies in the past and currently have some in place, such risks cannot be eliminated entirely, and significant changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. In the U.K., Brexit has and may continue to result in substantial volatility in foreign exchange markets and may lead to a sustained weakness in the British pound's exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Any significant weakening of the British pound to the U.S. dollar will have an adverse impact on our brokerage and risk management segment revenues and earnings as reported in U.S. dollars.. We face a variety of risks in our risk management third-party claims administration operations that are distinct from those we face in our insurance brokerage and benefit consulting operations.. Our third party claims administration operations face a variety of risks distinct from those faced by our brokerage operations, including the risks that:. <U+0095>    The favorable trend among both underwriting enterprises and self-insured entities toward outsourcing various types of claims administration and risk management services will reverse or slow, causing our revenues or revenue growth to decline;. <U+0095>    Concentration of large amounts of revenue with certain clients results in greater exposure to the potential negative effects of lost business due to changes in management at such clients or changes in state government policies, in the case of our government-entity clients, or for other reasons;. <U+0095>    Contracting terms will become less favorable or that the margins on our services will decrease due to increased competition, regulatory constraints or other developments;. <U+0095>    We will not be able to satisfy regulatory requirements related to third party administrators or that regulatory developments (including those relating to security and data privacy outside the U.S.) will impose additional burdens, costs or business restrictions that make our business less profitable;. <U+0095>    Economic weakness or a slow-down in economic activity could lead to a reduction in the number of claims we process;. <U+0095>    If we do not control our labor and technology costs, we may be unable to remain competitive in the marketplace and profitably fulfill our existing contracts (other than those that provide cost-plus or other margin protection);. <U+0095>    We may be unable to develop further efficiencies in our claims-handling business and may be unable to obtain or retain certain clients if we fail to make adequate improvements in technology or operations; and. <U+0095>    Underwriting enterprises or certain large self-insured entities may create in-house servicing capabilities that compete with our third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products.. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits could reduce our profitability.. The cost of current employees' medical and other benefits, as well as pension retirement benefits and postretirement medical benefits under our legacy defined benefit plans, substantially affects our profitability. In the past, we have occasionally experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates and actuarial assumptions used to calculate pension and related liabilities. A significant decrease in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets, changes to actuarial assumptions used to determine pension plan liabilities, or decreases in the interest rates used to discount the pension plans' liabilities could cause an increase in pension plan costs in future years. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, we can make no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability.. 16. Table of Contents. Business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations, damage our reputation and impact client relationships.. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business. Such a disruption could be caused by human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, or war. Our disaster recovery procedures may not be effective and insurance may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients or increase in claims and lawsuits directed against us.. For example, our third party claims administration operation is highly dependent on the continued and efficient functioning of RISX-FACS®, our proprietary risk management information system, to provide clients with insurance claim settlement and administration services. A disruption affecting RISX-FACS® or any other infrastructure supporting our business could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cause reputational harm and damage our client relationships.. Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks. A cybersecurity attack could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation.. We rely on information technology and third party vendors to support our business activities. Cybersecurity breaches of any of the systems we rely on may result from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, \"phishing\" attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions. We have from time to time experienced cybersecurity breaches, such as computer viruses, unauthorized parties gaining access to our information technology systems and similar incidents, which to date have not had a material impact on our business. In the future, any material breaches of cybersecurity, or media reports of the same, even if untrue, could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of clients and revenue, loss of proprietary data, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard clients' information or financial losses. Such losses may not be insured against or not fully covered through insurance we maintain.. We have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, policies and resources and employee training. The cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protections measures could increase significantly as cybersecurity threats increase. As these threats evolve, cybersecurity incidents will be more difficult to detect, defend against and remediate. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation.. Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could have an adverse effect on our business or operations.. We maintain confidential, personal and proprietary information relating to our company, our employees and our clients. This information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and intellectual property. If our information systems or infrastructure or those of our third party vendors experience a significant disruption or breach, such information could be compromised. A party that obtains this information may use it to steal funds, for ransom, to facilitate a fraud, or for other illicit purposes. Such a disruption or breach could also result in unauthorized access to our proprietary information, intellectual property and business secrets.. We maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information. Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error or malfeasance. It is possible that our security controls and employee training may not be effective. This could harm our reputation, create legal exposure, or subject us to legal liability.. Significant costs are involved with maintaining system safeguards for our technology infrastructure. If we are unable to effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, including in connection with the integration of acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access.. With respect to our commercial arrangements with third party vendors, we have processes designed to require third party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor's employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor's data protection processes, or a cyber attack on a vendor's information systems.. 17. Table of Contents. Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, particularly in Europe, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. These laws apply to transfers of information among our affiliates, as well as to transactions we enter into with third party vendors. For example, the European Union adopted a comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (GDPR) in May 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR will become fully effective in May 2018, and requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR may result in significant costs to our business and require us to revise certain of our business practices. In addition, legislators and regulators in the U.S. are proposing new and more robust cybersecurity rules in light of the recent broad-based cyberattacks at a number of companies.. These and similar initiatives around the world could increase the cost of developing, implementing or securing our servers and require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, adding to our IT and compliance costs. In addition, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability.. We are subject to regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if regulations change in a way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable.. Many of our activities throughout the world are subject to regulatory supervision and regulations promulgated by bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) in the U.S., the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the U.K., the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia and insurance regulators in nearly every jurisdiction in which we operate. Our activities are also subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing licensing, data privacy, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, anti-competition, anti-corruption, currency, reserves and the amount of local investment with respect to our operations in certain countries. This regulatory supervision could reduce our profitability or growth by increasing the costs of compliance, restricting the products or services we sell, the markets we enter, the methods by which we sell our products and services, or the prices we can charge for our services and the form of compensation we can accept from our clients, underwriting enterprises and third parties. As our operations grow around the world, it is increasingly difficult to monitor and enforce regulatory compliance across the organization. A compliance failure by even one of our smallest branches could lead to litigation and/or disciplinary actions that may include compensating clients for loss, the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate. In all such cases, we would also likely incur significant internal investigation costs and legal fees.. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business. Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, in light of recent events associated with Brexit, we will likely face new regulatory costs and challenges. For example, our U.K. operations could lose their European Union financial services passport which provides them the license to operate across borders within the single European Union market without obtaining local regulatory approval.. Changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, could from time to time require operational changes that could result in lost revenues or higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business.. 18. Table of Contents. For example, the method by which insurance brokers are compensated has received substantial scrutiny in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. The potential for conflicts of interest arises when a broker is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. The vast majority of the compensation we receive for our work as insurance brokers is in the form of retail commissions and fees. We receive additional revenue from underwriting enterprises, separate from retail commissions and fees, including, among other things, contingent and supplemental revenues and payments for consulting and analytics services we provide them. Future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these amounts. Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our relationships with clients, underwriting enterprises or other business partners.. We could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of laws that impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws, sanctioned parties restrictions, and FATCA.. In foreign countries where we operate, a risk exists that our employees, third party partners or agents could engage in business practices prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies from making improper payments to foreign officials and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls. Our policies mandate strict compliance with such laws and we devote substantial resources to programs to ensure compliance. However, we operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption, and, in certain circumstances, local customs and practice might not be consistent with the requirements of anti-corruption laws. In addition, in recent years, two of the five publicly traded insurance brokerage firms were investigated in the U.S. and the U.K. for improper payments to foreign officials. These firms undertook internal investigations and paid significant settlements.. We remain subject to the risk that our employees, third party partners or agents will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies and violate such laws and regulations. Violations by us or a third party acting on our behalf could result in significant internal investigation costs and legal fees, civil and criminal penalties, including prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and reputational harm.. We may also be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we violate U.S. trade sanctions administered by OFAC, the European Union and the United Nations, and trade sanction laws such as the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.. In addition, FATCA requires certain of our subsidiaries, affiliates and other entities to obtain valid FATCA documentation from payees prior to remitting certain payments to such payees. In the event we do not obtain valid FATCA documents, we may be obliged to withhold a portion of such payments. This obligation is shared with our clients who may fail to comply, in whole or in part. In such circumstances, we may incur FATCA compliance costs including withholding taxes, interest and penalties. In addition, regulatory initiatives and changes in the regulations and guidance promulgated under FATCA may increase our costs of operations, and could adversely affect the market for our services as intermediaries, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be negatively impacted if we are unable to adapt our services to changes resulting from the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation.. The 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, among other things, increases the level of regulatory complexity for companies that offer health and welfare benefits to their employees, and continues to be amended through regulations issued by various government agencies. Initiatives by the current presidential administration to change certain aspects of this legislation, including repeal of the individual mandate and further delay of the \"Cadillac Tax,\" may increase such complexity. Many clients of our brokerage segment purchase health and welfare products for their employees and, therefore, are impacted by the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation. We have made significant investments in product and knowledge development to assist clients as they navigate the complex requirements of this legislation. Depending on future changes to health legislation, these investments may not yield returns. In addition, if we are unable to adapt our services to changes resulting from this law and any subsequent regulations, our ability to grow our business or to provide effective services, particularly in our employee benefits consulting business, will be negatively impacted. In addition, if our clients reduce the role or extent of employer sponsored health care in response to this or any other law, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. 19. Table of Contents. We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to numerous claims, tax assessments, lawsuits and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or sub-agents improperly failed to procure coverage, report claims on behalf of clients, provide underwriting enterprises with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured, or provide clients with appropriate consulting, advisory and claims handling services. There is the risk that our employees or sub-agents may fail to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Certain of our benefits and retirement consultants provide investment advice or decision-making services to clients. If these clients experience investment losses, our reputation could be damaged and our financial results could be negatively affected as a result of claims asserted against us and lost business. We have established provisions against these matters that we believe are adequate in light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time based on current material developments. The damages claimed in such matters are or may be substantial, including, in many instances, claims for punitive, treble or other extraordinary damages. It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies and legal proceedings were not favorable to us, it could materially adversely affect our future financial results. In addition, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or we experience an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. We have purchased errors and omissions insurance and other insurance to provide protection against losses that arise in such matters. Accruals for these items, net of insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable. These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as current developments warrant.. As more fully described in Note 15 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements, we are a defendant in various legal actions incidental to our business, including but not limited to matters related to employment practices, alleged breaches of non-compete or other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties, intellectual property infringement and related causes of action. We are also periodically the subject of inquiries and investigations by regulatory and taxing authorities into various matters related to our business. For example, our micro-captive advisory services are currently the subject of an investigation by the IRS. In addition, we were named in a lawsuit asserting that we, our subsidiary, Gallagher Clean Energy, LLC, and Chem-Mod LLC are liable for infringement of a patent held by Nalco Company. An adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period, or on an ongoing basis. In addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, any such matter could expose us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources, which could adversely affect our ability to recruit quality brokers and other significant employees to our business, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations.. The recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have an adverse effect on us, and such effect may be material.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly revises the U.S. tax code by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%; limiting the deductibility of interest expense; implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Many aspects of the Tax Act are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. As a result, we have not yet been able to determine the full impact of the new laws on our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that the Tax Act, or interpretations under it, could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material.. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (which we refer to as GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, investments (including our IRC Section 45 investments), income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, litigation and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Further, as guidance relating to the recently enacted Tax Act is released, our provisional estimates related to the Tax Act may change. Additionally, changes in accounting standards (such as the new revenue recognition standard and a new standard for leases  -  see Note 2 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements) could increase costs to the organization and could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Investments, Debt and Common Stock. Our clean energy investments are subject to various risks and uncertainties.. We have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45.. See Note 13 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for a description of these investments. Our ability to generate returns and avoid write-offs in connection with these investments is subject to various risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties set forth below.. <U+0095>    Availability of the tax credits under IRC Section 45. Our ability to claim tax credits under IRC Section 45 depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in IRC Section 45. These include, among others, the emissions reduction, \"qualifying technology\", \"placed-in-service\" and coal sales to unrelated parties requirements of IRC Section 45, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a \"producer\" of refined coal. While we have received some degree of confirmation from the IRS relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the IRS could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in IRC Section 45.. <U+0095>    Value of the tax credits and the tax benefits of operating costs. The timing of our utilization of the tax credits will be impacted by changes to the tax code recently enacted, but their overall gross value to us will not be impacted. Although we will pay less in taxes overall, the lower corporate tax rate will reduce the tax benefit of operating costs associated with the production of refined coal.. <U+0095>    Co-investor tax credit risks. We have co-investors in several of the operations currently producing refined coal, and are working to negotiate arrangements with potential co-investors for the purchase of equity stakes in other operations. If no satisfactory arrangements can be reached with these potential co-investors, or if in the future any one of our co-investors leaves a project, we could have difficulty finding replacements in a timely manner. On June 15, 2017, one of the refined coal partnerships in which we are an investor, received a notice from the IRS disallowing our co-investors from claiming tax credits. The position taken by the IRS has the potential to affect, and the IRS has opened audits of, other partnerships in which these co-investors are invested. However, the IRS notice does not challenge the validity of the tax credits themselves, or our ability to utilize tax credits. The partnership affected by the June 15, 2017 notice will defend its position in tax court. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate disposition of this proceeding. An adverse ruling would likely make it more difficult for us to reach satisfactory arrangements with new co-investors and we may also be subject to claims against us from the co-investors affected by this IRS notice.. <U+0095>    Operational risks. Chem-Mod's multi-pollutant reduction technologies (The Chem-ModTM Solution) require chemicals that may not be readily available in the marketplace at reasonable costs. Utilities that use the technologies could be idled for various reasons, including operational or environmental problems at the plants or in the boilers, disruptions in the supply or transportation of coal, revocation of their Chem-Mod technologies environmental permits, labor strikes, force majeure events such as hurricanes, or terrorist attacks, any of which could halt or impede the operations. Long-term operations using Chem-Mod's multi-pollutant reduction technologies could also lead to unforeseen technical or other problems not evident in the short- or medium-term. A serious injury or death of a worker connected with the production of refined coal using Chem-Mod's technologies could expose the operations to material liabilities, jeopardizing our investment, and could lead to reputational harm. In the event of any such operational problems, we may not be able to take full advantage of the tax credits. We could also be exposed to risk due to our lack of control over the operations if future developments, for example a regulatory change affecting public and private companies differently, causes our interests and those of our co-investors to diverge. Finally, our partners responsible for operation and management could fail to run the operations in compliance with IRC Section 45. If any of these developments occur, our investment returns may be negatively impacted.. <U+0095>    Market demand for coal. When the price of natural gas and/or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. Market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown or mild weather and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. Sustained low natural gas prices could also cause utilities to phase out or close existing coal-fired power plants. If utilities burn less coal or eliminate coal in the production of electricity, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced.. <U+0095>    Environmental concerns regarding coal. Environmental concerns about greenhouse gases, toxic wastewater discharges and the potential hazardous nature of coal combustion waste could lead to public pressure to reduce, or regulations that discourage, the burning of coal. For example, regulations could mandate that electric power generating companies purchase a minimum amount of power from renewable energy sources such as wind, hydroelectric, solar and geothermal.. 21. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    Demand for commercial refined coal plants. The implementation of environmental regulations regarding certain pollution control and permitting requirements has been delayed from time to time due to various lawsuits. The uncertainty created by litigation and reconsiderations of rule-making by the Environmental Protection Agency could negatively impact power generational facilities' demand for commercial refined coal plants, should we need to move them as described below.. <U+0095>    Incompatible coal. If utilities purchase coal of a quality or type incompatible with their boilers and operations, treating such coal through a commercial refined coal plant could magnify the negative impacts of burning such coal. As a result, refined coal plants at such utilities may be removed from production until the incompatible coal has all been burned, which could cause us to be unable to take full advantage of the tax credits.. <U+0095>    Moving a commercial refined coal plant. Changes in circumstances, such as those described above, may cause a commercial refined coal plant to be moved to a different power generation facility, which could require us to invest additional capital. Three plants do not currently have long-term production contracts, of which two are 2019 Era Plants and will likely never be re-deployed. The remaining 2011 Era Plant would need to be moved once negotiations for such a contract is finalized. In addition, if for any reason one or more of these operations are unable to satisfy regulatory permitting requirements, and the utilities at which they are installed are unable to timely obtain long-term permits, we may not be able to generate additional earnings from these operations.. <U+0095>    Intellectual property risks. There is a risk that foreign laws will not protect the intellectual property associated with The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution to the same extent as U.S. laws, leaving us vulnerable to companies outside the U.S. who may attempt to copy such intellectual property. In addition, other companies may make claims of intellectual property infringement with respect to The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution. Such intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could require that Chem-Mod (or us and our investment and operational partners) obtain a license to use the intellectual property, which might not be obtainable on favorable terms, if at all. In July 2014, we were named in a lawsuit that asserts that we and other defendants are liable for infringement of a patent held by Nalco Company. The complaint sought a judgment of infringement, damages, costs and attorneys' fees, and injunctive relief. Along with other defendants, we disputed the allegation of infringement and have defended this matter vigorously. We filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on behalf of all defendants, alleging no infringement of Nalco's intellectual property. This motion and similar motions attacking amended complaints filed by Nalco, were granted. On April 20, 2016 the court dismissed Nalco's complaints and disallowed any further opportunity to amend or refile. Nalco appealed this ruling to the Federal Circuit Court and we are expecting a ruling during the first quarter of 2018. We continue to believe that the probability of a material loss is remote. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate disposition of this proceeding. If Chem-Mod (or we and our investment and operational partners) cannot defeat or defend this or other such claims or obtain necessary licenses on reasonable terms, the operations may be precluded from using The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution.. <U+0095>    Strategic alternatives risk. While we currently expect to continue to hold at least a portion of these refined coal investments, if for any reason in the future we decide to sell more of our interests, the discount rate on future cash flows could be excessive, and could result in an impairment on our investment.. <U+0095>    IRC Section 45 phase out provisions. IRC Section 45 contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments.. The IRC Section 45 operations in which we have invested and the by-products from such operations may result in environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs.. The construction and operation of the IRC Section 45 operations are subject to Federal, state and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. Such laws and regulations generally require the operations and/or the utilities at which the operations are located to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. There are costs associated with ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and failure to fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of penalties or other liability. Failure of The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution utilized at coal-fired generation facilities, for example, could result in violations of air emissions permits, which could lead to the imposition of penalties or other liability. Additionally, some environmental laws, without regard to fault or the legality of a party's conduct, on certain entities that are considered to have contributed to, or are otherwise responsible for, the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment. One party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its share or the entire share of investigation and cleanup costs at a site if payments or participation cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. By using The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution at locations owned and operated by others, we and our partners may be exposed to the risk of being held liable for environmental damage from releases of hazardous substances we may have had little, if any, involvement in creating. Such risk remains even after production ceases at an operation to the extent the environmental damage can be traced to the types of chemicals or compounds used or operations conducted in connection with The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution. In addition, we and our partners could face the risk of environmental and product liability claims related to concrete incorporating fly ash produced using The Chem-Mod<U+0099> Solution. No assurances can be given that contractual. 22. Table of Contents. arrangements and precautions taken to ensure assumption of these risks by facility owners or operators, or other end users, will result in that facility owner or operator, or other end user, accepting full responsibility for any environmental or product liability claim. Nor can we or our partners be certain that facility owners or operators, or other end users, will fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and this could result in environmental or product liability claims. It is also not uncommon for private claims by third parties alleging contamination to also include claims for personal injury, property damage, nuisance, diminution of property value, or similar claims. Furthermore, many environmental, health and safety laws authorize citizen suits, permitting third parties to make claims for violations of laws or permits. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risk and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of an environmental or product liability claim, and defense of such claims can be costly, even when such defense prevails. If significant uninsured losses arise from environmental or product liability claims, or if the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have historically benefited from IRC Section 29 tax credits and that law expired on December 31, 2007. The disallowance of IRC Section 29 tax credits would likely cause a material loss.. The law permitting us to claim IRC Section 29 tax credits related to our synthetic coal operations expired on December 31, 2007. We believe our claim for IRC Section 29 tax credits in 2007 and prior years is in accordance with IRC Section 29 and four private letter rulings previously obtained by IRC Section 29-related limited liability companies in which we had an interest. We understand these private letter rulings are consistent with those issued to other taxpayers and have received no indication from the IRS that it will seek to revoke or modify them. However, while our synthetic coal operations are not currently under audit, the IRS could place those operations under audit and an adverse outcome may cause a material loss or cause us to be subject to liability under indemnification obligations related to prior sales of partnership interests in partnerships claiming IRC Section 29 tax credits. For additional information about the potential negative effects of adverse tax audits and related indemnification contingencies, see the discussion on IRC Section 29 tax credits included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility and subjects us to restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $3.0 billion. The level of debt outstanding each period could adversely affect our financial flexibility. We also bear risk at the time our debt matures. Our ability to make interest and principal payments, to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our acquisition program and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, such as an environment of rising interest rates. It will also reduce the ability to use that cash for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to stockholders, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and general corporate purposes. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, and investments, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. The agreements governing our debt contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional debt, engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions or similar transactions, create liens on assets, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, change our business or make investments, and require us to comply with certain financial covenants. The restrictions in the agreements governing our debt may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and our stockholders and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional or more restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to pay dividends. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A failure to comply with the restrictions under the agreements governing our debt could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock and for corporate expenses. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and other payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock.. Further, we derive a significant portion of our revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S. Since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the U.S., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S. in the event we are unable to meet these U.S. based cash requirements.. Funds from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S. may be repatriated to the U.S. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings, where necessary. A number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner.. In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected.. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We grow our business organically as well as through acquisitions. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities. The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, performance stock units, options or warrants to purchase our shares of our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units or performance stock units vest, our stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, including the risk factors described above, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. <U+0095>    General economic and political conditions such as recessions, economic downturns and acts of war or terrorism;. <U+0095>    Quarterly variations in our operating results;. <U+0095>    Seasonality of our business cycle;. <U+0095>    Changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. <U+0095>    Our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. <U+0095>    Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the insurance brokerage or financial services industries in general;. <U+0095>    Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. <U+0095>    News reports relating to trends in our markets, including any expectations regarding an upcoming \"hard\" or \"soft\" market;. <U+0095>    Cyber attacks and other cybersecurity incidents;. <U+0095>    Changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. <U+0095>    Material announcements by us or our competitors;. 24. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    The impact or perceived impact of developments relating to our investments, including the possible perception by securities analysts or investors that such investments divert management attention from our core operations;. <U+0095>    Market volatility;. <U+0095>    A negative market reaction to announced acquisitions;. <U+0095>    Competitive pressures in each of our segments;. <U+0095>    General conditions in the insurance brokerage and insurance industries;. <U+0095>    Legal proceedings or regulatory investigations;. <U+0095>    Regulatory requirements, including international sanctions and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other anti-corruption laws;. <U+0095>    Quarter-to-quarter volatility in the earnings impact of IRC Section 45 tax credits from our clean energy investments, due to the application of accounting standards applicable to the recognition of tax credits; and. <U+0095>    Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur.. Stockholder class action lawsuits may be instituted against us following a period of volatility in our stock price. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources."
