[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations or an investment in our stock.. Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the risks we consider to be the most material, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business or operations in the future. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends and should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. If any of the events described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Factors Relating to MONI. MONI faces risks in acquiring and integrating new subscribers.. The acquisition of alarm monitoring contracts involves a number of risks, including the risk that the alarm monitoring contracts acquired may not be profitable due to higher than expected account attrition, lower than expected revenues from the alarm monitoring contracts, higher than expected costs for the creation of new subscribers or monitoring accounts or, when applicable, lower than expected recoveries from dealers. The cost incurred to acquire an alarm monitoring contract is affected by the monthly recurring revenue generated by the alarm monitoring contract, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, prior experience with alarm monitoring contracts acquired from the dealer, the number of alarm monitoring contracts acquired, the subscriber's credit score and the type of security equipment used by the subscriber. To the extent that the servicing costs or the attrition rates are higher than expected or the revenues from the alarm monitoring contracts or, when applicable, the recoveries from dealers are lower than expected, MONI's business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. MONI's customer generation strategies and the competitive market for customer accounts may affect its future profitability.. A significant element of MONI's business strategy is the generation of new customer accounts through its dealer network, which accounted for a substantial portion of MONI's new customer accounts for the year ended December 31, 2017.  MONI's future operating results will depend in large part on its ability to manage its generation strategies effectively. Although MONI currently generates accounts through hundreds of authorized dealers, a significant portion of its accounts originate from a smaller number of dealers. MONI experiences a loss of dealers from its dealer network due to various factors, such as dealers becoming inactive or discontinuing their alarm monitoring business and competition from other alarm monitoring companies. If MONI experiences a loss of dealers representing a significant portion of its account generation engine or if MONI is unable to replace or recruit dealers in accordance with its business plans, MONI's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In recent years, MONI's acquisition of new customer accounts through its dealer sales channel has declined due to the attrition of large dealers, efforts to acquire new accounts from dealers at lower purchase prices, consumer buying behaviors, including trends of buying security products through online sources and increased competition from telecommunications and cable companies in the market.  MONI is increasingly reliant on its internal sales channel and strategic relationships with third parties, such as Nest, to counter-balance this declining account generation through its dealer sales channel.  If MONI is unable to generate sufficient accounts through its internal sales channel and strategic relationships to replace declining new accounts through dealers, MONI's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. MONI relies on a significant number of its subscribers remaining with it for an extended period of time.. MONI incurs significant upfront costs for each new subscriber. MONI requires a substantial amount of time, typically exceeding the initial term of the related alarm monitoring contract, to receive cash payments (net of variable cash operating costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost. Accordingly, MONI's long-term performance is dependent on MONI's subscribers remaining with it for as long as possible. This requires MONI to minimize its rate of subscriber cancellations, or attrition. Factors that can increase cancellations include subscribers who relocate and do not reconnect, prolonged downturns in the housing market, problems with service quality, competition from other alarm monitoring companies, equipment obsolescence, adverse economic conditions, conversion of wireless spectrums and the affordability of. 12. Table of Contents. MONI's service. If MONI fails to keep its subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, attrition rates would be higher than expected and MONI's financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, MONI may experience higher attrition rates with respect to subscribers acquired in bulk buys than subscribers acquired pursuant to MONI's authorized dealer program.  For example, MONI experienced increased attrition rates in 2017 based on normal end-of-term attrition following the expiration of contracts purchased in bulk from Pinnacle Security in 2012 and 2013.. MONI is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its subscribers.. Substantially all of MONI's revenues are derived from the recurring monthly revenue due from subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts. Therefore, MONI is dependent on the ability and willingness of subscribers to pay amounts due under the alarm monitoring contracts on a monthly basis in a timely manner. Although subscribers are contractually obligated to pay amounts due under an alarm monitoring contract and are generally prohibited from canceling the alarm monitoring contract for the initial term of the alarm monitoring contract (typically between three and five years), subscribers' payment obligations are unsecured, which could impair MONI's ability to collect any unpaid amounts from its subscribers. To the extent payment defaults by subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts are greater than anticipated, MONI's business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We are also exploring different pricing plans for our products and services, including larger up-front payments and consumer financing options for residential equipment purchases. We currently have arrangements with a third-party financing company to provide financing to small business and commercial customers who wish to finance their equipment purchases from us. These financing arrangements could increase the credit risks associated with our subscribers and any efforts to mitigate risk may not be sufficient to prevent our results of operations from being materially adversely affected.. MONI is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its dealers.. Under the standard alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements that MONI enters into with its dealers, if a subscriber terminates their service with MONI during the first twelve months after the alarm monitoring contract has been acquired, the dealer is typically required to elect between substituting another alarm monitoring contract for the terminating alarm monitoring contract or compensating MONI in an amount based on the original acquisition cost of the terminating alarm monitoring contract. MONI is subject to the risk that dealers will breach their obligation to provide a comparable substitute alarm monitoring contract for a terminating alarm monitoring contract. Although MONI withholds specified amounts from the acquisition cost paid to dealers for alarm monitoring contracts (\"holdback\"), which may be used to satisfy or offset these and other applicable dealer obligations under the alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements, there can be no guarantee that these amounts will be sufficient to satisfy or offset the full extent of the default by a dealer of its obligations under its agreement. If the holdback does prove insufficient to cover dealer obligations, MONI is also subject to the credit risk that the dealers may not have sufficient funds to compensate MONI or that any such dealer will otherwise breach its obligation to compensate MONI for a terminating alarm monitoring contract. To the extent defaults by dealers of the obligations under their agreements are greater than anticipated, MONI's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, a significant portion of MONI's accounts originate from a small number of dealers. If any of these dealers discontinue their alarm monitoring business or cease operations altogether as a result of business conditions or due to increasingly burdensome regulatory compliance, the dealer may breach its obligations under the applicable alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreement and, to the extent such dealer has originated a significant portion of MONI's accounts, MONI's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to a greater degree than if the dealer had originated a smaller number of accounts.. An inability to provide the contracted monitoring service could adversely affect MONI's business.. A disruption to the main monitoring facility, the back-up monitoring facility and/or third party monitoring facility could affect MONI's ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. MONI's main monitoring facility holds UL listings as a protective signaling services station and maintains certain standards of building integrity, redundant computer and communications facilities and backup power, among other safeguards.  However, no assurance can be given that MONI's main monitoring facility will not be disrupted by a technical failure, including communication or hardware failures, catastrophic event or natural disaster, fire, weather, malicious acts or terrorism. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that MONI's back-up or third party monitoring center will not be disrupted by the same or a simultaneous event or that it will be able to perform effectively in the event its main monitoring center is disrupted. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on MONI's business.. 13. Table of Contents. MONI relies on third parties to transmit signals to its monitoring facilities and provide other services to its subscribers.. MONI relies on various third party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to its monitoring facilities in a timely and consistent manner.  These telecommunications providers and signal processing centers could fail to transmit or communicate these signals to the monitoring facility for many reasons, including due to disruptions from fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts or terrorism.  The failure of one or more of these telecommunications providers or signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facility in a timely manner could affect MONI's ability to provide alarm monitoring, home automation and interactive services to its subscribers.  MONI also relies on third party technology companies to provide home automation and interactive services to its subscribers, including video surveillance services.  These technology companies could fail to provide these services consistently, or at all, which could result in MONI's inability to meet customer demand and damage its reputation. There can be no assurance that third-party telecommunications providers, signal processing centers and other technology companies will continue to transmit, communicate signals to the monitoring facilities or provide home automation and interactive services to subscribers without disruption. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on MONI's business. See also \"Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact MONI's business and require significant capital expenditures\" below with respect to risks associated with changes in signal transmissions.. MONI's reputation as a service provider of high quality security offerings may be adversely affected by product defects or shortfalls in customer service.. MONI's business depends on its reputation and ability to maintain good relationships with its subscribers, dealers and local regulators, among others. Its reputation may be harmed either through product defects, such as the failure of one or more of its subscribers' alarm systems, or shortfalls in customer service. Subscribers generally judge MONI's performance through their interactions with the staff at the monitoring and customer care centers, dealers and technicians who perform on-site maintenance services. Any failure to meet subscribers' expectations in such customer service areas could cause an increase in attrition rates or make it difficult to recruit new subscribers. Any harm to MONI's reputation or subscriber relationships caused by the actions of its staff at the monitoring and customer care centers, dealers, personnel or third party service providers or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to the ever-changing threat landscape, MONI's products may be subject to potential vulnerabilities of wireless and Internet-of-things devices and its services may be subject to certain risks, including hacking or other unauthorized access to control or view systems and obtain private information.. Companies that collect and retain sensitive and confidential information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. While MONI implements security measures within its products, services, operations and systems, those measures may not prevent cybersecurity breaches, the access, capture or alteration of information by criminals, the exposure or exploitation of potential security vulnerabilities, distributed denial of service attacks, the installation of malware or ransomware, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced data or data loss that could be detrimental to its reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Third parties, including MONI's dealers, partners and vendors, could also be a source of security risk to it in the event of a failure of their own products, components, networks, security systems, and infrastructure. In addition, we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access MONI's products and services.. A significant actual or perceived (whether or not valid) theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, employee, or other personally identifiable data, whether by MONI, its partners and vendors, or other third parties, or as a result of employee error or malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with applicable industry standards or MONI's contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data, or a violation of its privacy and information security policies with respect to such data, could result in costs, fines, litigation, or regulatory actions against MONI. Such an event could additionally result in unfavorable publicity and therefore materially and adversely affect the market's perception of the security and reliability of MONI's services and its credibility and reputation with its customers, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and could result in lost sales and increased customer revenue attrition.. In addition, MONI depends on its information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. Security breaches of, or sustained attacks against, this infrastructure could create system disruptions and shutdowns that could negatively impact its operations. Increasingly, MONI's products and services are accessed through the Internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of its services via the Internet may affect it and could be. 14. Table of Contents. detrimental to its reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. MONI continues to invest in new and emerging technology and other solutions to protect its network and information systems, but there can be no assurance that these investments and solutions will prevent any of the risks described above. While MONI maintains cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party insurance coverages, its insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all of its losses from any future disruptions or breaches of its systems or other event as described above.. Privacy concerns, such as consumer identity theft and security breaches, could hurt MONI's reputation and revenues.. As part of its operations, MONI collects a large amount of private information from its subscribers, including social security numbers, credit card information, images and voice recordings. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to MONI's systems or facilities by, among other things, hacking into MONI's systems or facilities or those of MONI's customers, partners or vendors, or through fraud or other means of deceiving MONI's employees, partners or vendors.  In addition, hardware, software or applications MONI develops or obtains from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.  The techniques used to gain such access to MONI's information technology systems, MONI's data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target.  MONI has implemented systems and processes intended to secure its information technology systems and prevent unauthorized access to or loss of sensitive data, but as with all companies, these security measures may not be sufficient for all eventualities and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, system compromises or misuses of data.  If MONI were to experience a breach of its data security, it may put private information of its subscribers at risk of exposure. To the extent that any such exposure leads to credit card fraud or identity theft, MONI may experience a general decline in consumer confidence in its business, which may lead to an increase in attrition rates or may make it more difficult to attract new subscribers. If consumers become reluctant to use MONI's services because of concerns over data privacy or credit card fraud, MONI's ability to generate revenues would be impaired. In addition, if technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent security breaches of its network, boost general consumer confidence in its business, or prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, MONI may be required to make unplanned capital expenditures or expend other resources. Any such loss of confidence in MONI's business or additional capital expenditure requirement could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. MONI's independent, third-party authorized dealers may not be able to mitigate certain risks such as information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions, and marketing compliance.. MONI generates a portion of its new customers through its authorized dealer network. MONI relies on independent, third-party authorized dealers to implement mitigation plans for certain risks they may experience, including but not limited to, information technology breaches, data security breaches, product liability, errors and omissions, and marketing compliance. If MONI's authorized dealers experience any of these risks, or fail to implement mitigation plans for their risks, or if such implemented mitigation plans are inadequate or fail, it may be susceptible to risks associated with its authorized dealers on which it relies to generate customers. Any interruption or permanent disruption in the generation of customer accounts or services provided by MONI's authorized dealers could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers' support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact MONI's business and require significant capital expenditures.. Substantially all of MONI's subscriber alarm systems use either cellular service or traditional land-line to communicate alarm signals from the subscribers' locations to its monitoring facilities. The number of land-line customers has continued to decline as fewer new customers utilize land-lines and consumers give up their land-line and exclusively use cellular and IP communication technology in their homes and businesses.  In addition, some telecommunications providers may discontinue land-line services in the future and cellular carriers may choose to discontinue certain cellular networks.  As land-line and cellular network service is discontinued or disconnected, subscribers with alarm systems that communicate over these networks may need to have certain equipment in their security system replaced to maintain their monitoring service. The process of changing out this equipment will require MONI to subsidize the replacement of subscribers' outdated equipment and is likely to cause an increase in subscriber attrition.  In the future, MONI may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands in the future. If MONI is unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions or customer preferences, its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. MONI's business is subject to technological innovation over time.. MONI's monitoring services depend upon the technology (both hardware and software) of security alarm systems located at subscribers' premises as well as information technology networks and systems, including Internet and Internet-based or \"cloud\" computing services, to collect, process, transmit, and store electronic information. MONI may be required to implement new technology both to attract and retain subscribers or in response to changes in technology or other factors, which could require significant expenditures. Such changes could include making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, and implementing new systems.  There are inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems and implementing new systems, including potential disruption of MONI's sales, operations and customer service functions, potential disruption of MONI's internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into MONI's current systems. In addition, MONI's technology system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. The implementation of new technology systems may also cause disruptions in MONI's business operations and have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, and results of operations.. Further, the availability of any new features developed for use in MONI's industry (whether developed by MONI or otherwise) can have a significant impact on a subscriber's initial decision to choose MONI's or its competitor's products and a subscriber's decision to renew with MONI or switch to one of its competitors. To the extent its competitors have greater capital and other resources to dedicate to responding to technological innovation over time, the products and services offered by MONI may become less attractive to current or future subscribers thereby reducing demand for such products and services and increasing attrition over time. Those competitors that benefit from more capital being available to them may be at a particular advantage to MONI in this respect. If MONI is unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect its business by increasing its rate of subscriber attrition. MONI also faces potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable current or future subscribers to monitor their home environments without third-party involvement, which could further increase attrition rates over time and hinder the acquisition of new alarm monitoring contracts.. The high level of competition in MONI's industry could adversely affect its business.. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and fragmented. As of December 31, 2017, MONI was one of the largest alarm monitoring companies in the U.S. when measured by the total number of subscribers under contract. MONI faces competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that have more capital and that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms to dealers for alarm monitoring contracts or charge lower prices to customers for monitoring services. MONI also faces competition from a significant number of small regional competitors that concentrate their capital and other resources in targeting local markets and forming new marketing channels that may displace the existing alarm system dealer channels for acquiring alarm monitoring contracts. Further, MONI is facing increasing competition from telecommunications, cable and technology companies who are expanding into alarm monitoring services and bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services.  The existing access to and relationship with subscribers that these companies have could give them a substantial advantage over MONI, especially if they are able to offer subscribers a lower price by bundling these services.  Any of these forms of competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to MONI, thus slowing its rate of growth, or requiring it to increase the price paid for subscriber accounts, thus reducing its return on investment and negatively impacting its revenues and results of operations.. MONI has a substantial amount of indebtedness and the costs of servicing that debt may materially affect its business.. MONI has a significant amount of indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2017, MONI had principal indebtedness of $1,154,750,000 related to a term loan maturing in September 2022 and a revolving credit facility maturing in September 2021, both under its Credit Agreement, dated March 23, 2012 (as amended and restated, the \"Credit Facility\"), as well as $585,000,000 of 9.125% senior notes (the \"Senior Notes\") due April 2020.  At December 31, 2017, MONI also had outstanding a 12.5% intercompany promissory note of $12,000,000 due to Ascent Capital in October 2020.  That substantial indebtedness, combined with its other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences to us.  For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for MONI to satisfy its obligations with respect to its existing and future indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of the agreements governing its indebtedness could result in an event of default under such agreements;. 16. Table of Contents. • require MONI to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations (which also constitutes substantially all of our cash flow) to the payment of interest and principal due under its indebtedness, which will reduce funds available to fund future subscriber account acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the markets in which it operates;. • limit MONI's ability to obtain additional financing required to fund future subscriber account acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;. • expose MONI to market fluctuations in interest rates;. • place MONI at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of its competitors that are less leveraged;. • reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures; and. • cause any refinancing of MONI's indebtedness to be at higher interest rates and require MONI to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict its business operations.. The agreements governing MONI's various debt obligations, including its Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes, impose restrictions on its business and the business of its subsidiaries and such restrictions could adversely affect MONI's ability to undertake certain corporate actions.. The agreements governing MONI's indebtedness restrict its ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make certain dividends or distributions with respect to any of its capital stock;. • make certain loans and investments;. • create liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates, including Ascent Capital;. • restrict subsidiary distributions;. • dissolve, merge or consolidate;. • make capital expenditures in excess of certain annual limits;. • transfer, sell or dispose of assets;. • enter into or acquire certain types of alarm monitoring contracts;. • make certain amendments to its organizational documents;. • make changes in the nature of its business;. • enter into certain burdensome agreements;. • make accounting changes;. • use proceeds of loans to purchase or carry margin stock; and. • prepay its senior unsecured notes.. In addition, MONI also must comply with certain financial covenants under the Credit Facility that require it to maintain a consolidated total leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of not more than 5.25 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of not less than 2.00 to 1.00, each of which is calculated quarterly on a trailing twelve-month basis. In addition, the revolving portion of the Credit Facility requires MONI to maintain a consolidated senior secured Eligible RMR leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of no more than 31.0 to 1.00 and a consolidated senior secured RMR leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of no more than 31.5 to 1.00, each of which is calculated quarterly on a trailing twelve-month basis. If MONI cannot comply with any of these financial covenants, or if MONI or any of its subsidiaries fails to comply with the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility, such failure could lead to an event of default and MONI may not be able to make additional drawdowns under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility, which would limit its ability to manage its working capital requirements. In addition, failure to comply with the financial covenants or restrictions contained in the Credit Facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of MONI's indebtedness.. MONI may be unable to obtain future financing on terms acceptable to MONI or at all, which may hinder MONI's ability to grow its business or satisfy is obligations.. MONI intends to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of subscriber accounts through its authorized dealer network, its strategic relationships and its direct to consumer channel in LiveWatch, among other means. To continue its growth strategy, it intends to make additional drawdowns under the revolving credit portion of its Credit Facility and may seek financing through new credit arrangements or the possible sale of new securities, any of which may lead to higher leverage or result in higher borrowing costs. In addition, any future downgrade in MONI's credit rating could also result in higher. 17. Table of Contents. borrowing costs. An inability to obtain funding through external financing sources on favorable terms or at all is likely to adversely affect MONI's ability to continue or accelerate its subscriber account acquisition activities.. Additionally, MONI may be unable to refinance its existing indebtedness, which could affect its ability to satisfy its obligations. The maturity date for both the term loan and the revolving credit facility under the Credit Facility are subject to a springing maturity 181 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the Senior Notes.  Accordingly, if MONI is unable to refinance the Senior Notes by October 3, 2019, the maturity date for both the term loan and the revolving credit facility would be accelerated.  If this were to happen, MONI would be unable to meet its obligations and would need to take other measures to satisfy its creditors, which could result in significant negative and other consequences, as described under \"MONI has a substantial amount of indebtedness and the costs of servicing that debt may materially affect its business.\". MONI's acquisition strategy may not be successful.. One focus of MONI's strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that MONI will be able to consummate that strategy, and if MONI is not able to invest its capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash flow it could negatively impact its growth. MONI's ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things:. • failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms;. • competition from other bidders;. • inability to raise any required financing; and. • antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval.. If MONI engages in any acquisition, it will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If MONI undertakes any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including the assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of such acquired business and the possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with, or as a result of, such an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. Moreover, MONI may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, and it may experience increased attrition in its subscriber base and/or a loss of dealer or other strategic relationships and difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into its business or achieving anticipated operations efficiencies or cost savings. Future acquisitions could cause MONI to incur debt and expose it to liabilities. Further, MONI may incur significant expenditures and devote substantial management time and attention in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. Lastly, while it intends to implement appropriate controls and procedures as it integrates any acquired companies, MONI may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies' disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting within the time periods required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations.. Risks of liability from MONI's business and operations may be significant.. The nature of the services MONI provides potentially exposes it to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. If subscribers believe that they incurred losses as a result of an action or failure to act by MONI, the subscribers (or their insurers) could bring claims against MONI, and MONI has been subject to lawsuits of this type from time to time. Similarly, if dealers believe that they incurred losses or were denied rights under the alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements as a result of an action or failure to act by MONI, the dealers could bring claims against MONI. Although substantially all of MONI's alarm monitoring contracts and contract acquisition agreements contain provisions limiting its liability to subscribers and dealers, respectively, in an attempt to reduce this risk, the alarm monitoring contracts or a contract acquisition agreement that do not contain such provisions expose MONI to risks of liability that could materially and adversely affect its business. Moreover, even when such provisions are included in an alarm monitoring contract or alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreement, in the event of any such litigation, no assurance can be given that these limitations will be enforced, and the costs of such litigation or the related settlements or judgments could have a material adverse effect on MONI's financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that MONI is adequately insured for these risks. Certain of its insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence. If significant uninsured damages are assessed against MONI, the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Future litigation could result in reputational damage for MONI.. In the ordinary course of business, from time to time, MONI and its subsidiaries are the subject of complaints or litigation from subscribers or inquiries or investigations from government officials, sometimes related to alleged violations of state or federal consumer protection statutes (including by its dealers), violations of \"false alarm\" ordinances or other regulations, negligent dealer installation or negligent service of alarm monitoring systems. MONI may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, alleged discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination claims. In addition to diverting management resources, damage resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect MONI's reputation in the communities it services, regardless of whether such allegations are unfounded. Such reputational damage could result in higher attrition rates and greater difficulty in attracting new subscribers on terms that are attractive to MONI or at all.. A loss of experienced employees could adversely affect MONI.. The success of MONI has been largely dependent upon the active participation of its officers and employees. The loss of the services of key members of its management for any reason may have a material adverse effect on its operations and the ability to maintain and grow its business. MONI depends on the managerial skills and expertise of its management and employees to provide customer service by, among other things, monitoring and responding to alarm signals, coordinating equipment repairs, administering billing and collections under the alarm monitoring contracts and administering and providing dealer services under the contract acquisition agreements.  There is no assurance that MONI will be able to retain its current management and other experienced employees or replace them satisfactorily to the extent they leave its employ.  The loss of MONI's experienced employees' services and expertise could materially and adversely affect MONI's business.. The alarm monitoring business is subject to macroeconomic factors that may negatively impact MONI's results of operations, including prolonged downturns in the economy.. The alarm monitoring business is dependent in part on national, regional and local economic conditions. In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, energy, interest or other costs or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), the alarm monitoring business could experience increased attrition rates and reduced consumer demand. In periods of economic downturn, no assurance can be given that MONI will be able to continue acquiring quality alarm monitoring contracts or that it will not experience higher attrition rates. In addition, any deterioration in new construction and sales of existing single family homes could reduce opportunities to grow MONI's subscriber accounts from the sales of new security systems and services and the take-over of existing security systems that had previously been monitored by its competitors. If there are prolonged durations of general economic downturn, MONI's results of operations and subscriber account growth could be materially and adversely affected.. Adverse economic conditions or natural disasters in states where MONI's subscribers are more heavily concentrated may negatively impact MONI's results of operations.. Even as economic conditions may improve in the United States as a whole, this improvement may not occur or further deterioration may occur in the regions where MONI's subscribers are more heavily concentrated such as, Texas, California, Arizona, and Florida which, in the aggregate, comprise approximately 39% of MONI's subscribers. Further, certain of these regions are more prone to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods or earthquakes.  Although MONI has a geographically diverse subscriber base, adverse conditions in one or more states where its business is more heavily concentrated could have a significant adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the insurance industry were to change its practice of providing incentives to homeowners for the use of alarm monitoring services, MONI may experience a reduction in new customer growth or an increase in its subscriber attrition rate.. It has been common practice in the insurance industry to provide a reduction in rates for policies written on homes that have monitored alarm systems. There can be no assurance that insurance companies will continue to offer these rate reductions. If these incentives were reduced or eliminated, new homeowners who otherwise may not feel the need for alarm monitoring services would be removed from MONI's potential customer pool, which could hinder the growth of its business, and existing subscribers may choose to disconnect or not renew their service contracts, which could increase MONI's attrition rates. In either case MONI's results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. MONI may pursue business opportunities that diverge from its current business model, which may cause its business to suffer.. MONI may pursue business opportunities that diverge from its current business model, including expanding its products or service offerings, investing in new and unproven technologies, adding customer acquisition channels (including, for example, increased direct marketing efforts) and forming new alliances with companies to market its services (including, for example, the partnership with Nest announced in September 2017). MONI can offer no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove to be successful. Among other negative effects, MONI's pursuit of such business opportunities could cause its cost of investment in new customers to grow at a faster rate than its recurring revenue. Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could have higher cost structures than MONI's current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, MONI might be required to draw on its Credit Facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available.  Further, new alliances or customer acquisition channels may also result in the cannibalization of MONI's products, such as in the case of the alliance with Nest.  Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect MONI's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Third party claims with respect to MONI's intellectual property, if decided against MONI, may result in competing uses of MONI's intellectual property or require the adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property.. MONI has received and may in the future receive notices claiming it committed intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violations and third parties have claimed, and may, in the future, claim that MONI does not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of its business. While MONI does not believe that any of the currently outstanding claims are material, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future infringement claims against it or claim that its rights to its intellectual property are invalid or unenforceable, and MONI cannot guarantee that these claims will be unsuccessful. Any claims involving rights to use the \"MONI\" mark or the \"LiveWatch\" mark could have a material adverse effect on MONI's business if such claims were decided against MONI and MONI was precluded from using or licensing the \"MONI\" mark or the \"LiveWatch\" mark or others were allowed to use such mark. If MONI was required to adopt a new name, it would entail marketing costs in connection with building up recognition and goodwill in such new name. In the event that MONI was enjoined from using any of its other intellectual property, there would be costs associated with the replacement of such intellectual property with developed, acquired or licensed intellectual property. There would also be costs associated with the defense and settlement of any infringement or misappropriation allegations and any damages that may be awarded.. Factors Relating to Regulatory Matters. MONI's business operates in a regulated industry.. MONI's business, operations and dealers are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection laws, licensing regulation and other laws and regulations, and, to a lesser extent, similar Canadian laws and regulations. While there are no U.S. federal laws that directly regulate the security alarm monitoring industry, MONI's advertising and sales practices and that of its dealer network are subject to regulation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\") in addition to state consumer protection laws. The FTC and the Federal Communications Commission have issued regulations that place restrictions on, among other things, unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems and the use of prerecorded or artificial voice messages. If MONI (through its direct marketing efforts) or MONI's dealers were to take actions in violation of these regulations, such as telemarketing to individuals on the \"Do Not Call\" registry, it could be subject to fines, penalties, private actions, investigations or enforcement actions by government regulators. MONI has been named, and may be named in the future, as a defendant in litigation arising from alleged violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the \"TCPA\").  While MONI endeavors to comply with the TCPA, no assurance can be given that MONI will not be exposed to liability as a result of its or its dealers' direct marketing efforts or debt collections.  For example, MONI recognized a legal settlement reserve in the second quarter of 2017 related to a class action lawsuit based on alleged TCPA violations.  In addition, although MONI has taken steps to insulate itself from any such wrongful conduct by its dealers, and to require its dealers to comply with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that it will not be exposed to liability as result of its dealers' conduct. If MONI or any such dealers do not comply with applicable laws, MONI may be exposed to increased liability and penalties. Further, to the extent that any changes in law or regulation further restrict the lead generation activity of MONI or its dealers, these restrictions could result in a material reduction in subscriber acquisition opportunities, reducing the growth prospects of its business and adversely affecting its financial condition and future cash flows. In addition, most states in which MONI operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. MONI's business relies heavily upon wireline and cellular telephone service to communicate signals.  Wireline and cellular telephone companies are currently regulated by both federal. 20. Table of Contents. and state governments. Changes in laws or regulations could require MONI to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any such applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of its operating permits and licenses, including in geographic areas where its services have substantial penetration, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition. Further, if these laws and regulations were to change or MONI failed to comply with such laws and regulations as they exist today or in the future, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in alarm monitoring contracts, or purporting to characterize certain charges in the alarm monitoring contracts as unlawful, could adversely affect MONI's business and operations.. Alarm monitoring contracts typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless a cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, MONI may charge the customer an early cancellation fee as specified in the contract, which typically allows MONI to charge 80% of the amounts that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void or substantially limit the automatic renewal provisions of contracts such as the alarm monitoring contracts, or otherwise restrict the charges that can be imposed upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could negatively impact MONI's business. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could increase legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on MONI's business and operations.. \"False Alarm\" ordinances could adversely affect MONI's business and operations.. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. In some localities, this concern has resulted in local ordinances or policies that restrict police response to third-party monitored burglar alarms. In addition, an increasing number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms; measures include alarm fines to MONI and/or our customers, limits on number of police responses allowed, and requiring certain alarm conditions to exist before a response is granted.  In extreme situations, authorities may not respond to an alarm unless a verified problem exists.. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect MONI's future operations and business. Alarm monitoring companies operating in areas impacted by government alarm ordinances may choose to hire third-party guard firms to respond to an alarm. If MONI needs to hire third-party guard firms, it could have a material adverse effect on its business through either increased servicing costs, which could negatively affect the ability to properly fund its ongoing operations, or increased costs to its customers, which may limit its ability to attract new customers or increase its subscriber attrition rates. In addition, the perception that police departments will not respond to monitored burglar alarms may reduce customer satisfaction or customer demand for an alarm monitoring service.  Although MONI currently has less than 65,000 subscribers in areas covered by these ordinances or policies, a more widespread adoption of policies of this nature could adversely affect its business.. Factors Relating to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future.. Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past.  For example, during 2017, our Series A common stock price fluctuated from a high of $17.84 to a low of $8.87.  Investors may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they were purchased.  The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future depending upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect our stock price and trading volume include, among others, the perceived prospects of our business; differences between anticipated and actual operating results; changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; the commencement and/or results of litigation and other legal proceedings; and future sales of our common stock by us or by significant shareholders, officers and directors. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume volatility from time to time, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our performance.. 21. Table of Contents. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following:. • a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, and a Series C that, except in such limited circumstances as may be required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights;. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. • classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest or exercise of voting rights;. • limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders;. • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring such action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings;. • requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation;. • requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B common stock would be diluted, for example by issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and. • the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us.. In addition, MONI's Credit Facility provides that the occurrence of specified change of control events will result in an event of default thereunder, and the Senior Notes include a covenant that requires MONI to make an offer to purchase all outstanding Senior Notes, at 101% of par, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, each of which could cause an acquisition of our company to be prohibitively expensive for a potential bidder.. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock.. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders.. Although our Series B common stock trades on the OTC Markets, there is no meaningful trading market for the stock.. Our Series B common stock is not widely held, with 95% of the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2017 beneficially owned by John C. Malone, a former director of the Company, and William Fitzgerald, Ascent Capital's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Although it is quoted on the OTC Markets, it is sparsely traded and does not have an active trading market.  The OTC Markets tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Markets as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of \"bid\" and \"ask\" quotations, and market conditions. Each share of the Series B common stock is convertible, at any time at the option of. 22. Table of Contents. the holder, into one share of Series A common stock, which is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol \"ASCMA.\". Factors Relating to Ascent Capital and Its Corporate History and Structure. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future.. MONI, our primary operating subsidiary, incurred losses in each of its last five fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis.  Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Ascent Capital is a holding company and derives substantially all of its revenue and cash flow from its primary operating subsidiary, MONI.. MONI is a separate and independent legal entity and has no obligation to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of MONI to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, compliance with covenants in its Credit Facility and Senior Note indenture, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds, and applicable state laws. As of December 31, 2017, MONI had principal indebtedness of $1,739,750,000, excluding the 12.5% intercompany promissory note for $12,000,000 due to Ascent Capital.  Claims of other creditors of MONI have priority as to its assets over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders.  In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2017, Ascent Capital had approximately $96,775,000 principal outstanding under its 4.00% Convertible Senior Notes due July 15, 2020 (the \"Convertible Notes\").  Although we currently have sufficient cash reserves at the Company to service our obligations under the Convertible Notes, our sources of cash remain limited as a result of our holding company structure and the restrictions on MONI's ability to distribute cash to our company.. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses.. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our anticipated capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for investments and expenditures. In any such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material borrowing costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected.. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $563,549,000, which represents approximately 27% of total assets.  Goodwill was recorded in connection with the MONI, Security Networks, and LiveWatch acquisitions.  The Company accounts for its goodwill pursuant to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (\"FASB ASC Topic 350\").  In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances occur that would, more likely than not, reduce the fair value of an asset below its carrying value, resulting in an impairment.  Impairments may result from, among other things, deterioration in financial and operational performance, declines in stock price, increased attrition, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and/or regulations, deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, increased competitive markets in which MONI operates in, declining financial performance over a sustained period, changes in key personnel and/or strategy, and a variety of other factors.. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations.  Any impairment charge relating to goodwill or other intangible assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period.  At least annually, or as circumstances arise that may trigger an assessment, we will test our goodwill for impairment.  There can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in our recognition of impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial statements and results of operations.. U.S federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, new tax reform legislation that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, was enacted (the \"2017 Tax Act\"). The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and imposes significant limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits.  More specifically, it places limitations on interest expense beginning in fiscal year 2018 and places future limitations on the usage of net operating loss carryforwards generated. 23. Table of Contents. in fiscal year 2018 and after, which could negatively impact the Company's financial position.  As the new tax reform legislation has significant complexity and future implementation guidance from the Internal Revenue Service, clarifications of state tax law or the completion of the Company's 2017 tax return filings could all impact our tax estimates, we will continue to examine the impact that the 2017 Tax Act may have on our business.. We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the 2008 spin-off of our company from DHC (the \"2008 spin-off\").. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the 2008 spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the 2008 spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the 2008 spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of our former subsidiary, Ascent Media Group, LLC, whether incurred prior to or after the 2008 spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial."
