[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. There are risks associated with an investment in our securities. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our prospects, our operational results, our financial condition, our liquidity, the trading prices of our securities, and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. The risk factors generally have been separated into four groups: (1) Macroeconomic and Industry Risks; (2) Operational Risks; (3) Capital Risks; and (4) Legal and Regulatory Risks.  Based upon information currently known to us, the Company believes that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company and our securities.  However, the risks and uncertainties are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Our operational results, financial position and cash flows could be negatively impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, those described below.  If we are not successful in managing these risks, they could have a negative impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Macroeconomic and Industry Risks. General economic conditions and other factors impacting consumer spending may adversely affect our business.. Our performance is subject to macroeconomic conditions that are beyond the Company's control that could impact consumer discretionary spending. Some of the factors negatively impacting consumer spending include volatility in national and international financial markets, consumer confidence, fiscal and monetary policies of government, high unemployment, lower wage levels, increased taxation, credit availability, high consumer debt, reductions in net worth, higher fuel, energy and other prices, tax policies and changes in tax laws, increasing interest rates, severe weather conditions, civil disturbances, the threat of or actual terrorist attacks, military conflicts, the domestic or international political environment, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment.. In addition, there is a risk that consumer sentiment may decline as a result of market disruptions caused by severe or unseasonable weather conditions, natural disasters, public health concerns, terrorist activities, political crises or other major events or the prospect of these events.  Such macroeconomic and other factors could have a negative effect on consumer spending in the U.S., which in turn could have a material effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Existing and increased competition and fundamental shifts in the women's and girls' retail apparel industry may reduce our net revenues, operational results and market share.. The women's and girls' retail apparel industry is highly competitive. Although the Company is one of the nation's largest specialty retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national, regional and local level, primarily consisting of department stores, off-price retailers, other specialty stores, discount stores, mass merchandisers, boutiques, and the Internet, some of whom have advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, marketing or promotional resources. Many retailers, such as department stores, also offer a broader selection of merchandise than we offer, continue to be promotional by reducing their selling prices, and in some cases are expanding into markets in which we have a significant presence.. In addition, the growth and prominence of fast-fashion and value-fashion retailers and expansion of off-price retailers have fundamentally shifted customers' expectations of affordable pricing of well-known brands and continued promotional pressure. The rise of these retailers as well as the shift in shopping preferences away from brick-and-mortar stores to the direct channel, where online-only businesses or those with robust direct channel capabilities can facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping in our brands, have increased the difficulty of maintaining and gaining market share. The Company's execution of its own omni-channel strategy to adapt to these changes, in relation to its competitors' actions as well as to its customers' adoption of new technology, presents a specific risk. Further, unanticipated changes in pricing and other practices of the Company's competitors, including promotional activity, such as free shipping and pricing pressures, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The Company's stock price has experienced volatility over time and this volatility may continue, in part due to factors such as those discussed in this Item 1A. Stock volatility may adversely affect stockholder confidence, as well as associate morale and retention for those associates who receive equity grants as part of their compensation packages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. 10. Additionally, future announcements or disclosures concerning us or any of our competitors, our strategic initiatives, our sales and profitability, our financial condition, any quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results or comparable sales, any failure to meet analysts' expectations and sales of large blocks of our stock, among other factors, could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.  In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of the company's securities.  Such litigation could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Operational Risks. Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict fashion trends and customer preferences in a timely manner.. Specialty fashion apparel trends and customer preferences tend to change rapidly, particularly for women and tween girls. Our success depends largely on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. Accordingly, our failure to anticipate, identify and react to changing fashion trends or styles could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our merchandise, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our image with our customers. Because the lead times required for many of our design and purchase decisions must be made well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer trends, preferences, price shifting, and the optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. A miscalculation of either the demand for our merchandise or our customers' tastes or purchasing habits could lead to, among other things, inventory shortages or excess inventory that we may be required to sell at reduced prices, which would have an adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from the Change for Growth program.. In Fiscal 2017 the Company implemented the Change for Growth program, as described in Item 1. Business. The Change for Growth program is designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth by enhancing our operating effectiveness and efficiency, rightsizing and increasing the quality of our distribution channels, and reducing our operating costs. The Change for Growth program presents significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including:. • higher than anticipated costs in implementing the program;. • failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge;. • failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, the Change for Growth program;. • diversion of management's attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale;. • attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and. • damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities, including certain store closures.. The estimated costs and benefits associated with the Change for Growth program may vary materially based on various factors including: timing in execution, outcome of negotiations with landlords, and changes in management's assumptions and projections.  Any delays and unexpected or higher than anticipated costs could result in our not realizing all, or any portion, of the anticipated benefits of the Change for Growth program.  If we are not successful in implementing and managing the Change for Growth program, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements and/or cost reductions within the expected time frame, which could adversely impact our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows, and could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term.. As we transition certain Human Resources and Finance functions to an externally managed service provider, we will become more dependent on the third party performing these functions.. As part of our long-term strategy, we look for opportunities to cost effectively enhance capability of business services. In some cases, this requires that we outsource certain services and/or functions to external third party providers, as more fully described in Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. While we believe we conduct appropriate due diligence before entering into agreements with these third parties, the failure of any of these third parties to provide the expected services on a. 11. timely basis or at the prices/savings expected could disrupt or harm our business. Any significant interruption in the operations of these service providers, over which we have no control, could also have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to provide these services or implement substitute arrangements on a timely or cost-effective basis on terms favorable to us.. We may be unable to successfully implement and optimize our omni-channel retail strategy and maintain a relevant and reliable omni-channel experience for our customers.. One of our strategic priorities is to further develop and refine the omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and direct shopping channels.  Our omni-channel initiatives include cross-channel logistics optimization and exploring additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further direct channel integration, use of advance analytics, customer personalization, the assessment and implementation of emerging technologies. These initiatives involve significant investments in information technology systems, operational changes, and employee resources.. In addition, successful implementation of our omni-channel strategy is dependent on our ability to develop our direct channel capabilities in conjunction with optimizing our physical store operations (through our fleet optimization program) and market coverage, while maintaining profitability.  The Company's ability to optimize its store operations and market coverage requires active management of its real estate portfolio in a manner that permits store sizes, layouts, locations and offerings to evolve by brand over time.  These efforts may involve the relocation of existing stores, opening or closing of additional stores, efforts which could potentially increase the cost of doing business and the risk that the Company's business practices could result in liabilities that could have a material effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. In addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel programs, some of which may be more successful than our own.  If the implementation of our customer, direct, and omni-channel initiatives are not successful, or we do not realize our expected return on our investment in these initiatives, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We may be unable to maintain our brand image, engage new and existing customers or gain market share.. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers' connections with our brands. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. In addition, our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep existing customers, while engaging and attracting new customers to shop our brands. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for any of our brands.  Failure to achieve consistent, positive performance at several of our brands simultaneously could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability.. Further, the use of social media by the Company and consumers has also increased the risk that the Company's image and reputation could be negatively impacted. The availability of information, reviews and opinions on social media is immediate, as is its impact. The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate and inflammatory information and opinion, is nearly infinite.  Even if we react quickly and appropriately to negative social media about us or our brands, our reputation and customers' perception of our brands could be negatively impacted. Damage to the brand image and reputation of the Company in any aspect of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business depends on effective marketing, advertising and promotional programs.. Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location and service offered in our stores, in addition to many initiatives focused on direct channel and mobile applications, including social media. Although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers through various media, including social media, database marketing and print, if our competitors increase their spending on marketing, advertising and promotional programs, if our marketing, advertising and promotional expenses increase, if our programs become less effective than that of our competitors, or if we do not adequately leverage technology and data analytic capabilities needed to generate concise and effective competitive insight, our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. We depend on key personnel in order to support our existing business and future initiatives and may not be able to retain or replace these employees, recruit additional qualified personnel or effectively manage succession.. 12. Our success may be adversely impacted if we are not able to attract, retain and develop talent and future leaders, including our senior executives and associates.  Our senior executive team closely supervises all major aspects of our business including the design, development, and procurement of merchandise; operation of our information technology platforms, supply chain, and store network; development and retention of critical talent; and financial planning, reporting and compliance.  Our senior executive team has substantial experience and expertise in our retail business, and serve an integral role in the growth and support of our brands. In addition, several of our strategic objectives and initiatives, as more fully described in Note 7, require that we hire and/or develop associates with appropriate experience. If we were to lose the leadership of multiple senior executives or other personnel, our business could be adversely affected.  In addition, if significant unexpected turnover occurs at the associate level, the loss of the services of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. Competition for such qualified talent is intense, and we cannot be sure we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified individuals in future periods.. We rely on foreign sources of production and other international service providers.. Our international operations subject us to additional risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and may impair our ability to operate effectively. We purchase nearly all of our merchandise from foreign sources, both directly in foreign markets and indirectly through domestic vendors with foreign sources. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge which is typically even more difficult for goods sourced outside the United States. Additionally, through outsourcing arrangements, we have engaged in efforts to reduce our costs by utilizing lower-cost labor outside the U.S. in countries which may be subject to higher degrees of political and/or social instability than the U.S. and may lack the infrastructure to withstand events that may disrupt their business. Such disruptions could impact our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis, if at all, and to a lesser extent could decrease efficiency and increase our costs.. We face a variety of risks generally associated with doing business in and outsourcing certain services to foreign markets and importing large quantities of merchandise from abroad, including, but not limited to:. • financial or political instability or terrorist acts in any of the countries in which we operate, outsource services or acquire our merchandise, or through which our merchandise passes;. • new and additional U.S. government initiatives may be proposed or implemented that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties, tariffs or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, could increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries or restrict the importation of products from such countries;. • fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies or higher inflation rates in these countries, or restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries;. • inability of our manufacturers to comply with local laws, including labor laws, health and safety laws or labor practices;. • increased security and regulatory requirements and inspections applicable to imported goods;. • changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs, boarder adjustment taxes or increases in duties or quotas applicable to the merchandise we sell that could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us;. • impact of natural disasters, extreme weather, public health concerns or other catastrophes on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations;. • increase scrutiny in the U.S. utilizing labor based in foreign countries;. • delays in shipping due to port security or congestion issues, labor disputes or shortages, local business practices, vendor compliance with applicable import regulations or weather conditions;. • violations under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") or similar laws or regulations by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents;. • the adoption of new legislation or regulations in the U.S. or foreign countries that make it more difficult, more costly or impossible to continue our foreign activities;. • violation of applicable laws or regulations; and. • increased costs of transportation.. The future performance of our business depends on foreign suppliers and services providers, and may be adversely affected by the factors listed above, all of which are beyond our control. The foregoing may impact our ability to deliver our products and services on a timely basis, increase costs, negate or offset any cost savings anticipated from operating outside the U.S., decrease our efficiency or result in our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise.. We require our vendors, manufacturers and other service providers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, and our internal requirements. Our vendor code of conduct, guidelines and other compliance programs promote ethical business practices, and we monitor compliance with them; however, we do not control. 13. these vendors or manufacturers, their labor practices or business practices, the health and safety conditions of their facilities, or their sources of raw materials, and from time to time these vendors, manufactures or other service providers may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable laws. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors, manufacturers or other service providers could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business, and could subject us to liability in the form of substantial financial penalties, sanctions or otherwise.. Any of the aforementioned risks, independently or in combination with others, could have an adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Changes in U.S. trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and a potential resulting trade war, could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Most of our merchandise is produced in foreign countries, including China, Vietnam, Indonesia, India, Guatemala, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, making the price and availability of our merchandise susceptible to international trade risks and other international conditions.  The imposition of tariffs, duties, border adjustment taxes or other trade restrictions by the United States could also result in the adoption of new or increased tariffs or other trade restrictions by other countries. Recently, the current U.S. administration and China have imposed significant tariffs on goods imported from the other's country, and have threatened the imposition of additional tariffs in retaliation.  In addition, the United States may withdraw from or renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") with Mexico and Canada.  If the current administration follows through with such tariffs, withdraws from or renegotiates NAFTA, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the United States or other countries, the resulting trade barriers could have a significant adverse impact on our business.  We are not able to predict future trade policy of the United States or of any foreign countries in which we operate or purchase goods, or the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements, or their impact on our business.  The adoption and expansion of trade restrictions and tariffs, quotas and embargoes, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies, has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers and the world economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business could suffer as a result of a third-party manufacturer's inability to produce goods for us on time and to our specifications.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-parties for the manufacture of all of the goods that we sell. Both domestic and international manufacturers produce these goods. The Company is at risk for increases in manufacturing costs, and we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these third-party manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of world-wide events, including inclement weather, natural or man-made disasters, public health issues, strikes, acts of terror or political, social or economic conditions on our major suppliers. Our suppliers could also face economic pressures as a result of rising wages and inflation or be affected by trade wars or increases in tariffs materially impacting their business or experience difficulty obtaining adequate credit or access to liquidity to finance their operations, which could lead to vendor consolidation. A manufacturer's inability to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our cost, safety, quality and social compliance standards could result in supply delays, shortages, failure to meet customer expectations and damage to our brands, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business could suffer a material adverse effect if our distribution or fulfillment centers were shut down, disrupted or fail to operate efficiently.. We operate three distribution and fulfillment centers to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of our merchandise to the appropriate stores or to the customer directly through our direct channel. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules, proper functioning of our information technology and inventory control systems and overall effective management of our distribution and fulfillment centers. The Company utilizes primarily one contract carrier to ship merchandise to its stores and direct-to-consumer customers in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. As a result of damage to, or prolonged interruption of, operations at any of these facilities, or with respect to our primary contract carrier, due to a work stoppage, operations significantly below historical efficiency levels, supply chain disruption, inclement weather, natural or man-made disasters, system failures, slowdowns or strikes, acts of terror or other unforeseen events, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores or customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows. Refer to Item 2. Properties, for a listing of the distribution and fulfillment centers that we rely on.. 14. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance for these facilities, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if our distribution or fulfillment centers are shut down or interrupted for any unplanned reason.. We also continue to explore ways to further optimize and leverage our integrated distribution network, which may include providing distribution and fulfillment services to third party retailers. Any disruption of our distribution and fulfillment capabilities would also impact any third party services we provide. There also can be no assurance that providing such distribution and fulfillment services to third parties would be successful or profitable for us.. Our business could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, labor, energy, freight and trade relations.. Raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high or low demand for fabrics, labor conditions, trade wars and higher tariffs, transportation or freight costs, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic inflation, market speculation and other factors. Increases in the demand for and price of cotton, wool and other raw materials used in the production of fabric and accessories, as well as increases in labor and energy costs or shortages of skilled labor, could result in increases for the costs of our products as well as their distribution to our distribution centers, retail locations and to our customers. The Company is also susceptible to fluctuations in the cost of transportation. Additionally, substantially increased uncertainty with respect to trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could result in trade wars, higher barriers and tariffs, and higher product costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business could suffer as a result of disruptions at ports used to import our products.. We currently ship the vast majority of our products by ocean. If a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our products are imported, we and our vendors may have to ship some or all of our products from Asia or other regions by air freight or to alternate shipping destinations in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our profitability could be reduced. Similarly, shipping to alternate destinations in the United States could lead to increased lead times and costs for our products. A disruption at ports (domestic or abroad) through which our products are imported could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Risks associated with direct channel sales.. The successful operation of our direct channel business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and continuous operation of our websites and our associated fulfillment operations, and to provide a shopping experience that will generate orders and return visits to our sites. Our direct channel services are subject to numerous risks, including:. • system failures, including but not limited to, inadequate system capacity, human error, change in programming, website downtimes, system upgrades or migrations, Internet service or power outages;. • cyber incidents, including but not limited to, security breaches and computer viruses;. • reliance on third-party computer hardware/software fulfillment and delivery providers;. • unfavorable federal or state regulations or laws;. • violations of federal, state or other applicable laws, including those related to online privacy;. • disruptions in telecommunication systems, power outages or other technical failures;. • ability to anticipate and implement innovations in technology and logistics;. • credit card fraud;. • constantly evolving technology;. • liability for online content;. • challenges associated with recreating the in-store experience for our customers through our direct channels; and. • natural or man-made disasters or adverse weather conditions.. Our failure to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations or our failure to successfully address and respond to any one or more of these risks could damage the reputation of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business could suffer if our information technology systems fail to operate effectively, are disrupted or are compromised.. Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our existing information technology systems in operating, supporting and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, fulfillment, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, and financial systems. We regularly evaluate and from. 15. time to time make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems, including those that relate to point-of-sale, direct channel, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management and support systems, which are utilized by our human resources, finance and other groups on a company-wide basis, as well as leverage new technologies to support our growth strategies. We are aware of inherent risks associated with operating, replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions.  We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, staging implementation and in-sourcing certain processes, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement and redundancy technologies; however, there is a risk that information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and/or appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. The reliability and capacity of our information technology systems (including third-party hardware and software systems or services) are critical to our continued operations. Despite our precautionary efforts, our information technology systems, as well as those of our services providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including natural or man-made disasters, technical malfunctions, inadequate systems capacity, power outages, computer viruses, malicious human acts, security breaches and similar disruptive problems, which may require significant investment to fix or replace, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays to our operations.. While we believe that we are diligent in selecting vendors, systems and services to assist us in maintaining the integrity of our information technology systems, we realize that there are risks and that no assurance can be made that future disruptions, service outages/failures or unauthorized intrusions will not occur. Certain of our information technology support functions are performed by third-parties in overseas locations. Failure by any of these third-parties to implement and/or manage our information systems and infrastructure effectively and securely could impact our operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and other risks associated with data security breaches, credit card fraud and identity theft, which may subject us to increased risk of liability and may cause us to incur increased expenses to mitigate our exposure or to address any such incidents.. During the course of our business, we obtain and transmit confidential customer, employee, vendor and Company information through our information technology systems and infrastructure, and we are subject to numerous laws, rules and regulations in the United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdictions to protect both individual identifiable information as well as personal health information. The protection of customer, employee, vendor and Company data is critical to our business.  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements and heightened public awareness and scrutiny.. Our business and that of our third-party service providers employ systems and websites that allow us to process credit card transactions containing personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), perform online direct channel and social media activities, and store and transmit proprietary or confidential customer, employee, job applicant and other personal confidential information, as well as the information of our vendors and suppliers. Security and/or privacy breaches, acts of vandalism or terror, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human error or other similar events could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability.  Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to our systems are constantly changing and becoming increasingly more sophisticated and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we or our third-party service providers may not be able to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures.  We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks or intrusions. We, our customers and our third-party services providers face an evolving threat landscape in which cybercriminals, among others, employ a complex array of techniques designed to access PII and other information, including for example, the use of fraudulent or stolen access credentials, malware, ransomware, phishing, denial of service and other types of attacks. These types of cyber-attacks are becoming more prevalent, have occurred in our systems in the past, and may occur in our systems in the future.  While we have implemented and intend to continue to implement what we believe to be appropriate cyber practices and cyber security systems and controls, these systems may prove to be inadequate and result in the disruption, failure, misappropriation or corruption of our systems and infrastructure.  Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant and additional costs, including, but not limited to the costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, engaging third-party experts and consultants and compliance costs associated with various applicable laws or industry standards regarding use and/or unauthorized disclosure of PII. We may also incur significant remediation costs, including liability for stolen customer, job applicant or employee information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to affected customers, job applicants or employees. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data becoming obsolete.. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by our third-party service providers that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information, employee error or malfeasance,. 16. faulty password management or other irregularities that may result in a defeat of our or our third-party providers' security measures. We are also exposed to risks and costs associated with customer payment methods, including credit card fraud and identify theft, which cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues.. Although we maintain cyber-security insurance there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will cover the particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a timely manner.. The protection of customer, employee and Company PII and other data is critical, and our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. Any actual or perceived misappropriation, unauthorized disclosure or breach involving this data could attract negative media attention, cause substantial harm to our reputation or brand and result in significant liability (including but not limited to mandatory notifications, fines, substantial penalties or lawsuits), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, the possibility that current operating and financial systems and controls may be inadequate to deal with our growth and the potential loss of key employees. Achieving the anticipated benefits of previous and future acquisitions, including the ANN Acquisition, may present a number of significant risks and considerations. We may also encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire with our existing operations.  The success of these transactions depends on our ability to:. • successfully merge corporate cultures, operations and financial systems;. • realize cost reduction and operational synergies;. • retain key employees of acquired companies;. • retain existing customers of acquired companies; and. • complete the integration in a timely and cost efficient manner.. Impairment to the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could result in significant non-cash charges.. Under generally accepted accounting principles, identifiable intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, including goodwill, are not amortized but are evaluated annually for impairment.  A more frequent evaluation is performed if events or circumstances indicate that impairment could have occurred. As of August 4, 2018, we had approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets related to the acquisitions of maurices in January 2005, Justice in November 2009, Lane Bryant and Catherines in June 2012 and ANN in August 2015. Current and future economic conditions, as well as the other risks noted in this Item 1A, may adversely impact our brands' ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, maintain sales volumes and maintain margins. As discussed in our Critical Accounting Policies included elsewhere in this report, these events could materially reduce our brands' profitability and cash flow which could, in turn, lead to a further impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Furthermore, significant negative industry or general economic trends, disruptions to our business and unexpected significant changes or planned changes in our use of the assets may result in additional impairments to our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. As described in Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included herein, in the third quarter of Fiscal 2017, we recorded impairment charges of $596.3 million related to goodwill and $728.1 million related to other intangible assets. No impairments related to goodwill and other intangible assets were recorded in Fiscal 2018.  Any future impairment could have a material effect on our operational results.. Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful.. We intend to expand our operations and presence in existing and new countries in the future. Several of our brands have expanded their presence into Canada as well as certain countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Central America and South America, either through their own retail operations or through franchise or other licensing operations.. The risks associated with expansion into international markets include difficulties in attracting customers due to lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market and the significant costs associated with the start-up and maintenance of foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining locations for stores, setting up foreign offices, hiring experienced management and maintaining good relations with associates. We have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations and may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store growth.  Further, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with competitors with established market presence. In addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other varying legal requirements, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience.  Consumer tastes. 17. and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our merchandise may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate, and sales of our products and the margins on those sales may not be in line with our expectations.  If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, it could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established.. In addition, we have certain licensed franchises in international territories. Franchised stores are independently owned and operated, and franchisees are not our employees. The quality of franchised operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, such as the ability of these third-parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales and their compliance with our standards or requirements or in a manner consistent with applicable law.. Other challenges associated with international expansion may include diverting financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations and/or result in increased costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, as well as increased exposure to risks associated with international operations described above in this Item 1A. Failure to successfully implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. We believe that our core trademarks and service marks, as described in Item 1. Business, are essential to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks on a worldwide basis, including in the countries in which we have business operations or plan to have business operations. Because we have not registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we currently, or may in the future, source or offer our merchandise, our international expansion and our merchandising of products using these marks could be negatively impacted. We are not aware of any material claims of infringement or material challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks in the United States or Canada. Nevertheless, the actions we have taken, including to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks, may not be adequate to prevent others from imitating our products or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products, which could be detrimental to the image of our brands. Also, others may assert proprietary rights in our intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Any litigation regarding our trademarks could be time-consuming and costly. The loss of exclusive use of our trademarks could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We may suffer negative publicity and our business may be harmed if we need to recall any product we sell or if we fail to comply with applicable product safety laws.. The products our brands sell are regulated by many different governmental bodies, including but not limited to the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S., Health Canada in Canada, and similar state, provincial and foreign regulatory authorities. Although we generally test the products sold in our brands' stores and on our brands' websites, selected products still could present safety problems of which our brands are not aware. This could lead one or more of our brands to recall selected products, either voluntarily or at the direction of a governmental authority, and may lead to a lack of consumer acceptance or loss of consumer trust. Product safety concerns, recalls, defects or errors could result in the rejection of our products by customers, significant damage to our reputation, lost sales, product liability litigation and increased costs, any or all of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operational results and cash flows.. The cost of compliance with current and future requirements of federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operational results and cash flows. Examples of these requirements include regulatory testing, certification, packaging, labeling, advertising and reporting requirements affecting broad categories of consumer products. In addition, any failure of one or more of our brands to comply with such requirements could result in significant penalties, require one or more of our brands to recall products and harm our reputation, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. We depend on strip shopping center and mall traffic and our ability to identify suitable store locations.. Our ability to effectively obtain store locations depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for consumer traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. Many of our stores are located in strip shopping centers, shopping malls and other retail centers that, historically, have benefited from their proximity to \"anchor\" retail tenants,. 18. generally large department stores, and other attractions, which generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Strip shopping center and mall traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, the closing of, or continued decline of, anchor stores that drive consumer traffic or changes in customer shopping preferences. There has been a decline in the popularity of strip shopping center or mall shopping among our target customers, and a continuation of such decline in the popularity of strip shopping centers and mall shopping could have a material adverse effect on customer traffic and our operational results. In order to leverage customer traffic and the shopping preferences of our customers, we need to maintain or acquire stores in desirable consumer locations, however competition for such suitable store locations is intense.. In addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our stores. Several large landlords dominate ownership of prime retail real estate and should significant consolidation continue, a large portion of our store base could be concentrated with one or fewer landlords that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. If we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these landlords, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which in turn could have a material effect on our business, operational results, financial condition and cash flows.. Acts of terrorism, effects of war, public health, man-made and natural disasters, other catastrophes or political unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Acts of terrorism remain a significant threat to the global economy. Terrorism and potential military responses, political unrest, natural disasters, pandemics and other health issues have disrupted or could in the future disrupt commerce, impact our ability to operate our stores, offices or distribution and fulfillment centers in the affected areas or impact our ability to provide critical functions or services necessary to the operation of our business, including our and our third-party vendors', suppliers' and other providers' systems and the networks as well as the utilities and telecommunications infrastructure on which our business depends. A disruption of commerce, or an inability to recover critical functions or services from such a disruption, could interfere with the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise in a timely manner or increase our costs to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, any of the above disruptions could undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact consumer spending or customer traffic, and thus have an adverse effect on our operational results.. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of any of the above disruptions also depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation. In addition, although we maintain insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us.. Our business could suffer a material adverse effect from extreme or unseasonable weather conditions.. Frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, hurricanes, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over an extended period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, and may cause a disruption in the shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which could negatively impact the Company's operational results. The Company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions, which could influence customer trends, consumer traffic and shopping habits. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the Company's stores are located could negatively affect the Company's business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Capital Risks. We incurred significant additional indebtedness in connection with the ANN Acquisition, which could adversely affect us.. We substantially increased our indebtedness in connection with the ANN Acquisition, which could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and further increasing our interest expense. We also incurred various costs and expenses associated with our financings. The amount of cash flows required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness levels resulting from the ANN Acquisition, and thus the demands on our cash resources, will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the transaction. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the acquisition or form our Change for Growth initiatives, or if our financial performance does not meet expectations, our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted.. 19. The indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition bears interest at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our operational results and cash flows.. In addition, our credit ratings affect the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. In connection with the debt financing, we received ratings from S&P and Moody's. There can be no assurance that we will maintain particular ratings in the future.. To service our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures and other initiatives, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund planned capital expenditures and operating or strategic initiatives, will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future, which is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that will be beyond our control.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. In any such circumstance, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity, or incur additional debt subject to the restrictions of our borrowing agreements. We may not be able to refinance any indebtedness or incur additional debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness or incur additional debt, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments. Any such action, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The instruments governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to sell assets and our use of the proceeds from such sales.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the lenders under the term facility, the revolving facility and other indebtedness, or any replacement facilities in respect thereof, could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against the Company's assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our amended revolving credit agreement and our term loan contain various covenants that impose restrictions on the Company and certain of its subsidiaries that may affect their ability to operate their businesses.. The amended revolving credit agreement and the term loan contain various affirmative and negative covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on their property, change the nature of their business, transact business with affiliates and/or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or convey certain of their assets to any one person. In addition, the agreements that govern the financings contain financial covenants that, under certain circumstances, will require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to comply with these provisions may be affected by our operating results as well as events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could cause our lenders thereunder to accelerate the Company's repayment obligations.. Inability to access the credit or capital markets could adversely affect the Company's business, operational results, financial position or cash flows.. Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the Company's access to potential sources of future liquidity. As a result of general unpredictability in the global financial markets, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by operations, and our availability under our amended revolving credit agreement, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, any renewed tightening of the credit or capital markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, enter into an agreement for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. Our borrowing agreements also have financial convents and certain restrictions which, if not met, may limit our ability to access funds.. In addition, we also have cash and cash equivalents on deposit at overseas financial institutions as well as at FDIC-insured financial institutions that are currently in excess of FDIC-insured limits. As a result, we cannot be assured that we can access the cash and cash equivalents overseas when we are in need of liquidity, or that we will not experience losses with respect to cash on deposit at these financial institutions.. 20. Legal and Regulatory Risks. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales, consumption or value-added taxes (\"VAT\") in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial reporting period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or losses by taxing jurisdictions or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In some international markets, we are required to hold and submit VAT to the appropriate local tax authorities. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax law may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our current or future tax structure and effective tax rate. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\") was signed into law. The Act makes broad and significantly complex changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. Given the complexities associated with the Act, the estimated financial impact for Fiscal 2018 is provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the Act. In addition, the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Act will be applied or otherwise administered that differs from our interpretations and could result in changes to our estimates. SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") requires that the Company finalize its estimate of the impact of the Act by December 22, 2018. Changes to these estimates during Fiscal 2019 could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows. Refer to Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion.. The U.S. Supreme Court recently ruled that a state may require online retailers to collect and remit sales tax on goods sold to buyers in the state, even if the seller has no physical presence in the state. As a result, states may adopt, or begin to enforce, laws requiring us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. In the event we are required to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect taxes, we could incur significant tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, penalties and interest, which could negatively affect the Company's business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Our business may be affected by other regulatory, administrative and litigation developments.. Laws and regulations at the local, state, federal and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be reasonably estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from regulatory or administrative changes. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, advertising and marketing practices, product safety, transportation and logistics, healthcare, tax, accounting, privacy, operations or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. While it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and our procedures and internal controls are designed to promote such compliance, we cannot assure that all of our operations will at all times comply with all such legal and regulatory requirements.  A finding that we or our vendors or agents are out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies or criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.  In addition, even the claim of a violation of applicable laws or regulations could negatively affect our reputation. We are also involved from time to time in litigation, claims and assessments arising primarily in the ordinary course of business. Litigation matters may include, among other things, employment, commercial, intellectual property, advertising or stockholder claims, and any adverse decision in any such litigation or disputes could adversely impact our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Regulation in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security could increase our costs and affect or limit our business opportunities and how we collect and/or use data.. As privacy, data protection and information security laws, including data localization laws, are interpreted and applied, compliance costs may increase, particularly in the context of providing adequate data protection and adequate data transfer mechanisms. The United States and various other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, data protection and. 21. information security laws, including data localization laws, that could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of customer and/or employee information, and some of our current or future business plans.  New legislation or regulation, and the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, could increase our costs of compliance, technology and business operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives.  Moreover, the application of existing or new laws to existing technology and practices can be uncertain and may lead to additional compliance risk and cost.. In recent years, there has been increasing regulatory enforcement and litigation activity in the area of privacy, data protection and information security in the United States and in various other countries in which we operate. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions, ongoing regulatory monitoring customer attrition, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. In 2016, the European Union (\"EU\") adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single European Economic Area Privacy Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which went into effect on May 25, 2018. The GDPR expands the scope of EU data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of EU residents and imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with significant monetary penalties. Complying with the GDPR and similar emerging and changing privacy and data protection requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices.. Increases in labor costs related to changes in employment laws or regulations could impact our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Various foreign and domestic labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs.  These include minimum wage requirements, overtime and sick pay, paid time off, work scheduling, healthcare reform and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\"), unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, and union organizations.  A number of factors could adversely affect our operating costs, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime and sick pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, and changing regulations from the National Labor Relations Board or other agencies. Additionally, recent political changes could lead to the repeal of, or changes to, some or all of the ACA.  Complying with any new legislation and/or reversing changes implemented under the ACA could be time-intensive and expensive and could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively impact our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information.. We must continue to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will prove to be adequate in the future. Any failure to maintain the effectiveness of our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting or to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Changes to accounting rules and regulations may adversely affect our operational results, financial position and cash flows.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regards to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to revenue recognition, leases, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, inventory, income taxes and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change or increase volatility of our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.  See Note 4, \"Recently Issued Accounting Standards,\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, and \"Critical Accounting Policies,\" included herein which discusses accounting policies considered to be important to our operational results and financial condition. These and other future changes to accounting rules or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business, operational results, financial position and cash flows."
