[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following:. U.S. and global market and economic developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for the contract staffing services that we provide is significantly affected by global market and economic conditions. As economic activity slows, many clients or potential clients reduce their use of and reliance upon contract professionals. During periods of reduced economic activity, we may also be subject to increased competition for market share and pricing pressure. As a result, a recession or periods of reduced economic activity could harm our business and results of operations.. If we are not able to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining temporary staffing clients, our future growth will suffer. Agreements may be terminated by clients and contract professionals at will and the termination of a significant number of such agreements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. The contract staffing industry is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service agencies and in regional and local markets with specialized contract staffing agencies. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our contract professionals.. Our agreements with clients do not provide for exclusive use of our services and in some instances we provide services without entering into contracts. As such, clients are free to place orders with our competitors. Each contract professional's employment with us is terminable at will. If clients terminate a significant number of our staffing agreements or assignments and we are unable to generate new contract staffing orders to replace lost revenues, or a significant number of our contract professionals terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements, the growth of our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients and contract professionals. We are expanding our light deliverables-based professional services model whereby we perform certain project oversight functions. If we are not able to comply with these performance requirements our revenues and our relationships with our clients might be adversely affected.. To the extent that competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our margins could decline, which could harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. We expect competition for clients to increase in the future and the success and growth of our business depends on our ability to remain competitive. In addition, we participate in a number of third party contracts as a subcontractor and that requires us to participate in vendor management contracts, which may subject us to greater risks or lower margins.. If we are unable to meet our expectations for growth, our forecasted results and stock price are likely to be adversely affected.. Over the past several years, we have experienced revenue and earnings growth. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue this pace of growth in the future or meet our strategic objectives for growth. Our growth could be negatively affected by many factors, including future technology industry conditions, macroeconomic events, competition and labor market trends or regulations. If our growth rate slows, or if it fails to grow at the pace anticipated and we are unable to be successful in our growth initiatives and strategies, our financial results could be less than our expectations or those of investors or analysts and our stock price could be adversely affected.. Our business strategy also includes continuing efforts to integrate and optimize our organization, programs, technology and delivery of services to make us a more agile and effective competitor, to reduce the cost of operating our business and to increase our operating profit and operating profit margin. We may not be successful in our continuing integration and optimization efforts and they may fail to achieve the cost savings we anticipate or limit our ability to scale growth. Further, we may fail to prevent the return of costs eliminated in these efforts. If we are not successful in implementing our integration and optimization efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified contract professionals, our business could be negatively affected.. Our business is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain contract professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses which may be required to meet the specified requirements of our clients. We compete for such contract professionals with other temporary staffing companies and with our clients and potential clients. There can be no assurance that qualified professionals will be available to us in adequate numbers to staff our temporary assignments. Moreover, our contract professionals are often hired to become regular employees of our clients. Attracting and retaining contract professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide contract professionals with desirable assignments and competitive wages and benefits. The cost of attracting and retaining contract professionals in the future may be higher than we anticipate if there is an increase in competitive wages and benefits and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability could decline. In periods of high unemployment, contract professionals frequently opt for full-time employment directly with clients and, due to a large pool of available candidates, clients are able to directly hire and recruit qualified candidates without the involvement of staffing agencies. In periods of low unemployment, there may be a shortage of, and significant competition for, the skilled contract professionals sought by our clients. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of contract professionals to meet client demand, we may be required to forgo staffing and revenue opportunities, which may hurt the growth of our business.. 7. Although we directly employ a de minimis number of H-1B contract professionals, we utilize subcontractor firms who employ individuals with this visa classification. The H-1B visa classification is subject to legislative and administrative changes, as well as changes in the application of standards and enforcement. Immigration laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political developments and levels of economic activity. Current and future restrictions on the availability of such visas could limit our subcontractors' ability to employ and/or retain the skilled professionals we need to meet our clients' needs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our results of operations could be negatively affected if we cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of our services.. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of our services. We rely on a variety of technologies to support important functions in our business, including the recruitment, placement and monitoring of our contract professionals; billing; and candidate and client data analytics. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, such as emerging job and resume posting services, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve our business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, our services, results of operations and ability to develop and maintain our business could be negatively affected.. Reclassification of our subcontractors by tax or regulatory authorities could materially and adversely affect our business model and could require us to pay significant retroactive wages, taxes and penalties.. We may place individuals who work for their own corporations to provide services in connection with our business as subcontractors rather than employees. As such, we do not withhold or pay income or other employment related taxes, or provide workers' compensation insurance for them. We believe that our classification of those individuals or their corporations as independent contractors is consistent with applicable guidelines from the U.S. Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service, but can nonetheless be challenged by the contractors themselves or by relevant taxing authorities. If federal or state taxing authorities determine that individuals employed by their own corporations engaged as independent contractors are employees, our business model could be adversely affected.. Our business is subject to government regulation, which in the future could restrict the types of employment services we are permitted to offer or result in additional or increased costs that reduce our revenues and earnings.. The temporary staffing services industry is regulated in the United States and other countries in which we operate. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the employer/employee relationship, such as those related to payment of federal, state and local payroll and unemployment taxes for our corporate employees and contractor professional employees, tax withholding, social security or retirement benefits, licensing, wage and hour requirements, paid sick leave, paid family leave and other leaves, employee benefits, pay equity, non-discrimination, sexual harassment, workers' compensation, and we must further comply with immigration laws and a wide variety of notice and administrative requirements, such as record keeping, written contracts and reporting. We are also subject to U.S. laws and regulations relating to government contracts with federal agencies, as well as the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"ACA\"). In other countries, while we may not be considered the legal employers of our temporary personnel, we are still responsible for collecting taxes and social security deductions and transmitting these amounts to the taxing authorities.. In addition, we are subject to data privacy, protection and security laws and regulations, the most significant of which is the European General Data Protection Act (\"GDPR\") that governs the personal information of European persons which we may collect, use and retain in the ordinary course of our business. This law will be effective on May 25, 2018, and will impact our U.S. operations as well as our European operations as it applies not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. The GDPR will impose more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information that is potentially confidential and/or personally identifiable and sensitive, such as stronger safeguards for data transfers to countries outside the European Union and stronger enforcement authorities and mechanisms. Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR and other current and future laws and regulations relating to data transfer, residency, privacy and protection may increase the Company's operating costs and require significant management time and attention, while any failure by us to comply with applicable laws could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect on the Company's operations and reputation.. Future changes in the laws or governmental regulations affecting our business may result in the prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services that we are permitted to offer or the imposition of new or additional legal requirements that could increase our costs and reduce our revenues and earnings. Due to the substantial number of state and local jurisdictions in which we operate, there also is a risk that we may be unaware of, or unable to adequately monitor, actual or proposed changes in, or the interpretation of, the laws or governmental regulations of such states and localities. Any delay in our compliance with changes in such laws or governmental regulations could result in potential fines, penalties, or other sanctions for non-compliance. In addition, although we may elect to bill some or all of any additional costs to our customers, there can be no assurances that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to fully cover any increased costs as a result of future changes in laws or government regulations.. 8. Significant legal actions and claims could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities, result in damage to our business reputation, result in the discontinuation of our client relationships and adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts.. We employ people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Our ability to control the workplace environment of our clients is limited. Further, many of the individuals that we place with our clients have access to client information systems and confidential information. As the employer of record of our contract professionals, we incur a risk of liability to our contract professionals for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. Other inherent risks include possible claims of errors and omissions; intentional misconduct; release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property; employment of illegal aliens; criminal activity; torts; or other claims. We also have been subject to legal actions alleging vicarious liability, intentional torts, negligent hiring, discrimination, sexual harassment, retroactive entitlement to employee benefits, violation of wage and hour requirements and related legal theories. These types of actions could involve large claims and significant defense costs. We may be subject to liability in such cases even if the contribution to the alleged injury was minimal. Moreover, in most instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks and we could be required to pay substantial sums to fulfill our indemnification obligations. In addition, certain of our clients currently require, and other clients in the future may require, that we indemnify them against losses in the event that the client is determined to be non-compliant with the ACA.. A failure of any of our employees internally or contract professionals in client's workplaces to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks could result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, payment of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse impacts on our business. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Any associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified contract professionals in the future.. To protect ourselves from the costs and damages of significant legal actions and claims, we maintain workers' compensation, errors and omissions, employment practices and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our coverage includes a retention amount and our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. In addition, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. If we do not maintain adequate insurance coverage or are made party to significant uninsured claims, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. A loss or reduction in revenues from one or more large client accounts could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our clients range in size from large national or multinational companies to small and mid-market businesses. Our ten largest clients represented approximately 21 percent of our revenues and no single client accounted for more than seven percent of our total revenues in 2017. Our large clients may enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several staffing firms and the client is generally able to terminate our contracts on short notice without penalty. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these large clients, or a change in their strategy around the use of our services, could reduce their need for our services and result in a significant decrease in the revenues and earnings we derive from them. The loss of one or more of our large national or multinational clients or a significant decrease in their demand for our services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions, which could harm our business and growth.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to opportunistically pursue selected acquisitions and we have entered into a purchase agreement with the owners of ECS Federal, LLC (\"ECS\"), which is expected to close at the beginning of April 2018. We compete with other companies in the professional staffing and consulting industries for acquisition opportunities and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. There also can be no assurance that we will realize the benefits expected from any transaction or receive a favorable return on investment from our acquisitions.. We may pay substantial amounts of cash or incur debt to finance our acquisitions, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. Specifically, we have announced our intention to amend our existing credit facility to provide for $1.6 billion in financing in conjunction with the acquisition of ECS. The incurrence of indebtedness would also result in increased interest expense and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. We may also issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any acquisitions we announce could be viewed negatively by investors, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The integration of an acquisition involves a number of factors that may affect our operations. These factors include diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, difficulties or delay in the integration of acquired operations, retention of key personnel, entry into unfamiliar markets, significant unanticipated costs or legal liabilities and tax and accounting issues. If we fail to accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, we may incur tax and accounting changes. Furthermore, once we have integrated an acquired business, the business may not achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 9. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results.. We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to build upon our business and acquisitions of new businesses depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team. We have provided short-term and long-term incentive compensation to our key management in an effort to retain them. However, if members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we could incur significant costs and experience business disruption related to time spent on efforts to replace them and our financial results and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could materially affect future results of operations.. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived identifiable intangible assets (consisting entirely of trademarks) for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets having finite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Events and changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets may not be recoverable may include: (i) macroeconomic conditions, such as deterioration in general economic conditions, (ii) industry and market considerations, such as deterioration in the environment in which we operate, (iii) cost factors, such as increases in labor or other costs that have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows, (iv) our financial performance, such as negative or declining cash flows or a decline in actual or projected earnings, (v) sustained decreases in our market capitalization and (vi) other relevant entity-specific events, such as changes in management, key personnel, strategy or customers. We may be required to record a charge in our financial statements during the period in which we determine an impairment has occurred. Although an impairment charge would not affect our cash flow, it would negatively impact our operating results.. We are subject to business risks associated with international operations, which could make our international operations significantly more costly.. Although we have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our services outside of the United States, we had international sales in Canada and Europe in 2017, and we are considering expanding our operations into additional foreign countries in 2018. Our international operations comprised approximately five percent of total sales in 2017. We also have offices and employees outside the United States. Our sales and operations outside the United States expose us to currency, operational, regulatory and political risks in the countries in which we operate. For example, our exposure to currency risks results in fluctuations in our results of operations. Our management of international operations also results in increased costs. If we are not able to manage these risks, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. An information technology system failure or security breach could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our information technology systems are used in daily business operations to, among other things, identify staffing resources, match personnel with client assignments and manage our accounting and financial reporting functions. In conducting our business, we routinely collect and retain personal information on our employees and contract professionals and their dependents including, without limitation, full names, social security numbers, addresses, birth dates and payroll-related information. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Although we use commercially available information security technologies and have implemented security controls to help protect the security and privacy of our business information, our information technology systems are subject to potential security breaches through employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, and cybersecurity threats, including denial of service attacks, viruses or other malicious software programs and third parties gaining unauthorized access to our information technology systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption.. If our information technology systems and security controls do not provide sufficient protection from these threats, we could experience the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential data about us or our employees, contract professionals or customers, business interruptions or delays and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. We may also be subject to liability and claims for monetary damages for any unauthorized disclosure of confidential information about our employees, contract professionals or customers, which could result in adverse publicity, reputational damage and a reduced demand for our services by clients and/or consultants.  In addition, privacy breaches may require notification and other remedies, which can be costly, and which may have other serious adverse consequences for our business, including regulatory enforcement actions resulting in fines and penalties under laws that protect personal data and confidential information.. Failure of internal controls may leave us susceptible to errors and fraud.. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, would be detected, particularly in our acquired companies and international operations. If our internal controls are unsuccessful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 10. As of December 31, 2017, we had $588.0 million of total debt, and upon closing the acquisition of ECS we expect to have approximately $1.4 billion in total debt, which could adversely affect our operating flexibility, and the restrictive covenants under our debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations or additional costs.. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit agreements could have important consequences for investors, including the following:. • we have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations;. • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing;. • some or all of the debt under our current or future credit facilities may be at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates;. • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and. • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage.. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the requirement to repay such borrowings before their due date. Some covenants are tied to our operating results and thus may be breached if we do not perform as expected. Further, the terms of our credit facility permit additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify.. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to repay borrowings under our credit facility primarily from our operations. Our ability to pay our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We may not be able to take such actions on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and/or rates.. The trading price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations, which could make it difficult for us to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction.. In 2017, the trading price of our common stock experienced significant fluctuations, ranging from a high of $65.73 to a low of $42.95. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was $78.79 on February 23, 2018. Our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a large number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • period to period fluctuations in our financial results or those of our competitors;. • failure to meet previously announced guidance or analysts' expectations of our quarterly results;. • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;. • any major change in our board or management;. • changes in government regulations;. • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates;. • the volume of shares of common stock available for public sale;. • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations;. • sales of stock by us or by our stockholders;. • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock; and. • general economic conditions, slow or negative growth of unrelated markets and other external factors.. Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the level of demand for our temporary staffing services, changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, our ability to control costs and our ability to manage our accounts receivable balances, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and could cause instability in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the trading prices of the common stock of many companies involved in the temporary staffing industry.. As a result of these fluctuations, we may encounter difficulty should we desire to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction.. A significant loss or suspension of our business with the federal government or government contractors could lead to a reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results.. We act as subcontractor to the U.S. federal government and its agencies. In these capacities, we must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review, investigation or audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation,. 11. suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Revenues from federal government agencies and government contractors were less than six percent of our total revenues in 2017. If we acquire ECS, our government business will increase, as substantially all of their revenues are derived from contracts with the U.S. government.. Changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies could materially adversely affect our government business; in particular, our business could be materially adversely affected by decreases in federal spending, including delays in the funding and timing of projects.. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, a security breach by us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients.. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders consider favorable.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the impact of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:. • Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy in the Board of Directors upon the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors until the next applicable annual meeting of stockholders.. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. Further, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, and only one class is up for election each year. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. • Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to one million shares of undesignated or \"blank check\" preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated or \"blank check\" preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt by, or make it more difficult for, a third party to acquire us.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any large stockholders who hold 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting capital stock in a merger or business combination unless the holder has held the stock for three years, the Board of Directors has expressly approved the merger or business transaction, or at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting capital stock not owned by such large stockholder approve the merger or the transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the impact of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. In addition, our Board of Directors could rely on these provisions of Delaware law to discourage, prevent, or delay an acquisition of us."
