[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we fail to increase usage and product adoption of our aspenONE engineering and manufacturing and supply chain offerings and grow our aspenONE APM business, or fail to continue to provide innovative, market-leading solutions, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy successfully, and our business could be seriously harmed.. The maintenance and extension of our market leadership and our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to  increase usage and product adoption of our aspenONE engineering and manufacturing and supply chain offerings and grow our aspenONE APM business, and to develop new software products that achieve market acceptance with acceptable operating margins. Enterprises are requiring their application software vendors to provide greater levels of functionality and broader product offerings. We must continue to enhance our current product line and develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and the technological developments of our competitors. Our business and operating results could suffer if we cannot successfully execute our strategy and drive usage and product adoption.. We have implemented a product strategy that unifies our software solutions under the aspenONE brand with differentiated aspenONE vertical solutions targeted at specific capital-intensive industries. We cannot ensure that our product strategy will result in products that will continue to meet market needs and achieve significant usage and product adoption.   If we fail to increase usage and product adoption or fail to develop or acquire new software products that meet the demands of our customers or our target markets, our operating results and cash flows from operations will grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our financial condition could suffer.. Our business could suffer if we do not grow our aspenONE APM business or if the demand for, or usage of, our other aspenONE software declines for any reason, including declines due to adverse changes in the process and other capital-intensive industries.. We have introduced the aspenONE APM suite, and our aspenONE engineering and manufacturing and supply chain suites account for a significant majority of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. If we do not grow our aspenONE APM business or if demand for, or usage of, our other suites declines for any reason, our operating results, cash flows from operations and financial position would suffer. Our business could be adversely affected by:. • insufficient growth in our aspenONE APM business;. • any decline in demand for or usage of our aspenONE suites;. • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our aspenONE suites;. • technological innovations that our aspenONE suites do not address;. • our inability to release enhanced versions of our aspenONE suites on a timely basis; and. • adverse changes in capital intensive industries or otherwise that lead to reductions, postponements or cancellations of customer purchases of our products and services, or delays in the execution of license agreement renewals in the same quarter in which the original agreements expire.. 14. Table of Contents. Because of the nature of their products and manufacturing processes and their global operations, companies in the process and other capital-intensive industries are subject to risk of adverse or even catastrophic environmental, safety and health accidents or incidents and are often subject to changing standards and regulations worldwide.. In addition, worldwide economic downturns and pricing pressures experienced by energy, chemical, engineering and construction, and other capital-intensive industries have led to consolidations and reorganizations.  In particular, we believe that the volatility in oil prices has impacted and may continue to impact the operating levels and capital spending by certain of our customers in the engineering and construction market, which has resulted and could continue to result in less predictable and lower demand for our products and services.. Any such adverse environmental, safety or health incident, change in regulatory standards, or economic downturn that affects the capital-intensive industries, including continued challenges and uncertainty among customers whose business is adversely affected by volatility in oil prices, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in these industries, could harm our operating results in the future.. Unfavorable economic and market conditions or a lessening demand in the market for asset optimization software could adversely affect our operating results.. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and difficult or impossible to predict. If the market for asset optimization software grows more slowly than we anticipate, demand for our products and services could decline and our operating results could be impaired. Further, the state of the global economy may deteriorate in the future. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable global economic and market conditions, including significant volatility in oil prices, as well as a lessening demand for asset optimization software generally.. Customer demand for our products is linked to the strength of the global economy. If weakness in the global economy persists, many customers, including those whose businesses are negatively impacted by lower oil prices, may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition or reduced use of our products by our customers. We will lose revenue if demand for our products is reduced because potential customers experience weak or deteriorating economic conditions, catastrophic environmental or other events, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow from operations would likely be adversely affected.. The majority of our revenue is attributable to operations outside the United States, and our operating results therefore may be materially affected by the economic, political, military, regulatory and other risks of foreign operations or of transacting business with customers outside the United States.. As of June 30, 2018, we operated in 32 countries. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force located throughout the world. In the event that we are unable to adequately staff and maintain our foreign operations, we could face difficulties managing our international operations.. Customers outside the United States accounted for the majority of our total revenue during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016. We anticipate that revenue from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our operating results attributable to operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including:. • unexpected changes in regulatory or environmental requirements, tariffs and other barriers, including, for example, changes in climate regulations, sanctions or other regulatory restrictions imposed by the United States or foreign governments; and the effects of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum in June 2016 and the subsequent withdrawal process initiated in March 2017;. • less effective protection of intellectual property;. • requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls;. • delays in the execution of license agreement renewals in the same quarter in which the original agreements expire;. • difficulties in collecting trade accounts receivable in other countries;. • adverse tax consequences; and. • the challenges of managing legal disputes in foreign jurisdictions.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenue and operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, 9.7%, 9.8% and 11.5% of our total revenue was denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, respectively. In addition, certain of our operating expenses incurred outside the United States are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our reported revenue and operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Foreign currency risk arises primarily from the net difference between non-U.S. dollar receipts from customers outside the United States and non-U.S. dollar operating expenses for subsidiaries in foreign countries. Currently, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates exist primarily with the Euro, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar and Japanese Yen against the U.S. dollar. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, we did not enter into, and were not a party to any, derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency exchange contracts, intended to manage the volatility of these market risks. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Any hedging policies we may implement in the future may not be successful, and the cost of those hedging techniques may have a significant negative impact on our operating results.. Competition from software offered by current competitors and new market entrants, as well as from internally developed solutions by our customers, could adversely affect our ability to sell our software products and related services and could result in pressure to price our products in a manner that reduces our margins.. Our markets in general are competitive and differ among our principal product areas: engineering, manufacturing, supply chain management and asset performance management. We face challenges in selling our solutions to large companies that have internally developed their own proprietary software solutions, and we face competition from well-established vendors as well as new entrants in our markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services, or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to new technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. We believe they also have adopted and may continue to pursue more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. For example, some competitors may be able to initiate relationships through sales and installations of hardware and then seek to expand their customer relationships by offering asset optimization software at a discount. In addition, many of our competitors have established, and may in the future continue to establish, cooperative relationships with third parties to improve their product offerings and to increase the availability of their products in the marketplace. Competitors with greater financial resources may make strategic acquisitions to increase their ability to gain market share or improve the quality or marketability of their products.. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional software products and related services on terms favorable to us. Businesses may continue to enhance their internally developed solutions, rather than investing in commercial software such as ours. Our current and potential commercial competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. In addition, if these competitors develop products with similar or superior functionality to our products, we may need to decrease the prices for our products in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing due to competitive pressures, our margins will be reduced and our operating results will be negatively affected. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Defects or errors in our software products could harm our reputation, impair our ability to sell our products and result in significant costs to us.. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects or errors. We have not suffered significant harm from any defects or errors to date, but we have from time to time found defects in our products and we may discover additional defects in the future. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before releasing products. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products have been implemented. We have in the past issued, and may in the future need to issue, corrective releases of our products to remedy defects or errors. The occurrence of any defects or errors could result in:. • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products;. • delays in payment to us by customers;. • product returns;. • injury to our reputation;. • diversion of our resources;. • increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions;. 16. Table of Contents. • increased insurance costs; and. • legal claims, including product liability claims.. Defects and errors in our software products could result in claims for substantial damages against us.. Potential acquisitions could be difficult to consummate and integrate into our operations, and they and investment transactions could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results.. As part of our business strategy, we may continue from time to time to seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, technologies or products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer markets or allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with acquisitions and investment transactions include, but are not limited to:. •  failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies;. •  difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company;. •  unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. •  challenges in combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we may not have experience;. •  distraction of management's attention from normal business operations;. •  potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;. •  difficulty implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures;. •  impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers;. •  possibility of incurring impairment losses related to goodwill and intangible assets; and. •  other issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal or other contingencies. Acquisitions and/or investments may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the expenditure of available cash, and amortization expenses or write-downs related to intangible assets such as goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Investments in immature businesses with unproven track records and technologies have an especially high degree of risk, with the possibility that we may lose our entire investment or incur unexpected liabilities.  We may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination or investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination or investment transaction may not close. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions in the future or in integrating or executing on our business plan for existing or future acquisitions.. We may be subject to significant expenses and damages because of product-related claims.. In the ordinary course of business, we are, from time to time, involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations, proceedings and threats of litigation. These matters include an April 2004 claim by a customer that certain of our software products and implementation services failed to meet the customer's expectations. In March 2014, a judgment was issued by the trial court against us in the amount of approximately 1.9 million Euro (\"\200\") plus interest and a portion of legal fees.  We subsequently filed an appeal of that judgment.  In March 2016, the appellate court determined that we are liable for damages in the amount of approximately \2001.7 million plus interest, with the possibility of additional damages to be determined in further proceedings by the appellate court.  In December 2017, the appellate court issued a final judgment against us in the amount of approximately \2003.5 million, including interest, plus approximately \2000.2 million in costs and legal fees.  As of June 30, 2018, all payments associated with this judgment have been paid.. The amount of damages cannot be predicted with certainty, and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. Claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others may be costly to defend or settle and could damage our business.. We cannot be certain that our software and services do not infringe patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights, so infringement claims might be asserted against us. In addition, we have agreed, and may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against infringement claims that third parties may assert against our customers based on. 17. Table of Contents. use of our software or services. Such claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, may be time-consuming and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including our management's attention to our business. Furthermore, a party making an infringement claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our software or require that we re-engineer some or all of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter costly royalty or license agreements. We may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed significantly if any of these events were to occur, and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share.. Our software is proprietary. Our strategy is to rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to rely on license and confidentiality agreements and software security measures to further protect our proprietary technology and brand. We have obtained or applied for patent protection with respect to some of our intellectual property, but generally do not rely on patents as a principal means of protecting our intellectual property. We have registered or applied to register some of our trademarks in the United States and in selected other countries. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and customers, and historically have restricted third-party access to our software and source code, which we regard as proprietary information. In certain cases, we have provided copies of source code to customers for the purpose of special product customization or have deposited copies of the source code with a third-party escrow agent as security for ongoing service and license obligations. In these cases, we rely on non-disclosure and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights.. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our technology or independent development by others of technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses on commercially reasonable terms. Any misappropriation of our technology or development of competitive technologies could harm our business and could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our proprietary technology, and could subject us to substantial costs in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. The laws of some countries in which our products are licensed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Moreover, in some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property rights are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope of enforceability of our intellectual property rights.. Our software research and development initiatives and our customer relationships could be compromised if the security of our information technology is breached as a result of a cyber-attack. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could harm our competitive position.. We devote significant resources to continually updating our software and developing new products, and our financial performance is dependent in part upon our ability to bring new products and services to market. Our customers use our software to optimize their manufacturing processes and manage asset performance, and they rely on us to provide updates and releases as part of our software maintenance and support services, and to provide remote on-line troubleshooting support. The security of our information technology environment is therefore important to our research and development initiatives, and an important consideration in our customers' purchasing decisions. We maintain cybersecurity policies and procedures, including employee training, to manage risk to our information systems, and we continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes to mitigate evolving cybersecurity threats.  We may incur additional costs to maintain appropriate cybersecurity protections in response to evolving cybersecurity threats, and we may not be able to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data.  If the security of our systems is impaired, our development initiatives might be disrupted, and we might be unable to provide service. Our customer relationships might deteriorate, our reputation in the industry could be harmed, and we could be subject to liability claims. This could reduce our revenues, and expose us to significant costs to detect, correct and avoid recurrences of any breach of security and to defend any claims against us.  In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all costs related to cybersecurity incidents and the disruptions resulting from such events.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our common stock may experience substantial price and volume fluctuations.. The equity markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, particularly in the high technology sector, and those fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be affected by other factors, such as: (i) our financial performance; (ii). 18. Table of Contents. announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; and (iii) market conditions in the computer software or hardware industries.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial liability and costs and divert management's attention and resources.. Our corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law may prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our charter and our by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions include:. • limitations on the removal of directors;. • a classified board of directors, so that not all members of the board are elected at one time;. • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations;. • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;. • the ability of the board to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and. • the ability of the board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. These provisions could:. • have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial;. • discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions; and. • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock."
