[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. This annual report will contain a discussion of the risks applicable to an investment in our securities. Prior to making a decision about investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the specific factors discussed under the heading \"Risk Factors\" in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties we have described are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our operations. The occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks might cause you to lose all or part of your investment in the offered securities.. 9. We have incurred significant losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.. As of June 30, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $184.2 million and reported a net loss of $13.3 million for the fiscal year 2018. We are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely experience significant decline.. Our business units are in development stage. They have earned limited revenues and it is uncertain whether they will earn any revenues in the future or whether any of them will ultimately be profitable.. Our business units are in an early stage with a limited operating history. Its future operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business including, but not limited to, risks related to capital requirements, failure to establish business relationships, and competitive disadvantages against larger and more established companies. These business units will require substantial amounts of funding to continue to commercialize its products. If such funding comes in the form of equity financing, such equity financing may involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Even with funding, our products may fail to be effective or attractive to the market or lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to be successful.. These business units can be expected to experience continued operating losses until they can generate sufficient revenues to cover their operating costs. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the business units will be able to develop, manufacture, or market additional products in the future, that future revenues will be significant, that any sales will be profitable, or that the business units will have sufficient funds available to complete their commercialization efforts.. Any products and technologies developed and manufactured by our business units may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold, and used. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval of any products will be obtained.. The commercial success of any of our business units will depend, in part, on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in any products it develops. In addition, our business units may need to license intellectual property to commercialize future products or avoid infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all. Our business units may suffer if any licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid, or if our respective business unit is unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. If such business unit, or any third-party, from whom it licenses intellectual property, fails to obtain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property covering its products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property covering the products, resulting in harm to the competitive business position of this business unit. In addition, patent and other intellectual property protection may not provide our business units with a competitive advantage against competitors that devise ways of making competitive products without infringing any patents that this business unit owns or has rights to. Such competition could adversely affect the prices for any products or the market share of any of our business units and could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. Our cash and cash equivalents may not be sufficient to fund our operating expenses, capital equipment requirements, and other expected liquidity requirements.. Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our success in developing and expanding markets for our products, payments under possible future strategic arrangements, continued progress of our research and development of potential products, the need to acquire licenses to new technology, costs associated with increasing our manufacturing and development facilities, costs associated with strategic acquisitions including integration costs and assumed liabilities, litigation expense, the status of competitive products, and potential cost associated with both protecting and defending our intellectual property. Additionally, actions taken as a result of the ongoing internal evaluation of our business could result in expenditures that are not currently contemplated. Factors that could affect our capital requirements, in addition to those listed above include continued collections of accounts receivable consistent with our historical experience and our ability to manage product development efforts.. 10. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on reasonable terms when needed, or at all, which could seriously harm our business.. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flow from operations in recent prior periods, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. As a result, we may need additional financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. Therefore, we may need to raise additional funds and we cannot assure investors that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution.. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, indicating the possibility that we may not be able to operate in the future. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm also includes an explanatory paragraph about our ability to continue as a going concern.. As of June 30, 2018, the Company has working capital of $3.3 million. For the fiscal year 2018, the Company reported a net loss of $13.3 million and net cash used in operating activities of $10.8 million. For the fiscal year 2017, the Company reported a net loss of $11.6 million attributable to the Company and net cash used in operating activities of $8.8 million. This raises substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is contingent upon, among other factors, the sale of the shares of our common stock or obtaining alternate financing.. Management continues to pursue many options for its capital requirements to maximize shareholder value. These include, but. are not limited to, selling the Company or a portion thereof, debt financing, equity financing, merging, or engaging in a strategic partnership. On July 3, 2018, management filed a Form S-3 shelf registration statement to raise possible funds through the capital markets. The Company is currently evaluating any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants to purchase common stock, preferred stock or debt securities, or any combination of the foregoing, either individually or as units comprised of one or more of the other securities. Our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2018 do not include any adjustments that might result from the substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.. Our success depends significantly on the establishment and maintenance of successful relationships with our customers.. We cannot make any assurances that any customer will require our services in the future. Therefore, we continue to work on diversifying our customer base, while going to great lengths to satisfy the needs of our current customer base.. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products.. As we introduce any new and potentially promising product or service, or improve existing products or services with new features or components, companies possessing competing technologies, or other companies owning patents or other intellectual property rights, may be motivated to assert infringement claims in order to generate royalty revenues, delay or diminish potential sales, and challenge our right to market such products or services. Even if successful in defending against such claims, patent and other intellectual property related litigation is costly and time consuming. In addition, we may find it necessary to initiate litigation in order to protect our patent or other intellectual property rights, and even if the claims are well-founded and ultimately successful, such litigation is typically costly and time-consuming and may expose us to counterclaims, including claims for intellectual property infringement, antitrust, or other such claims. Third parties could also obtain patents or other intellectual property rights that may require us to either redesign products or, if possible, negotiate licenses from such third parties. Adverse determinations in any such litigation could result in significant liabilities to third parties or injunctions, or could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and if such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms, prevent us from manufacturing, importing, distributing, selling, or using certain products, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, which could provide our competitors access to the same technologies. Under any of these circumstances, we may incur significant expenses.. 11. Our ongoing success is dependent upon the continued availability of certain key employees.. We are dependent in our operations on the continued availability of the services of our employees, many of whom are individually key to our current and future success, and the availability of new employees to implement our growth plans. The market for skilled employees is highly competitive, especially for employees in technical fields. While our compensation programs are intended to attract and retain the employees required for us to be successful, ultimately, we may not be able to retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute on our plans. In addition, we may not be able to continue to attract new employees as required.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition.. We generally sell our products in industries that have increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes, and changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services, and enhancements, our products and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. •   properly identify customer needs and predict future needs;. •   innovate and develop new technologies, services, and applications;. •   successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner;. •   manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time;. •   differentiate our offering from our competitors' offerings;. •   price our products competitively;. •   anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services, or technological innovations; and. •   control product quantity in our manufacturing process.. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. We maintain insurance for certain risks, and we believe our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. However, the amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial costs.. Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, services, and data.. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of our and our customers', suppliers', and third-party service providers' products, systems, and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our and our customers' data. Although we have implemented policies, procedures, and controls to protect against, detect, and mitigate these threats, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We also have access to sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors, and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes, and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness and remediation or increased protection costs, and could subject us to fines, damages, litigation, and enforcement actions.. Our facilities located in Houston are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, or other natural disasters.. Our 1st Detect facilities in Houston are susceptible to damage caused by hurricanes or other natural disasters. Although we insure our properties and maintain business interruption insurance, there can be no guarantee that the coverage would be sufficient or a claim will be fulfilled. A natural disaster could result in a temporary or permanent closure of our business operations, thus impacting our future financial performance.. 12. If we are unable to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements in the commercial and governmental markets, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our business strategy employs our personnel's decades of experience to expand the services and products we offer to our customers. We believe that our growth and future financial performance depend upon our ability to anticipate technological advances and customer requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the necessary technological advances for us to remain competitive. Our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technological and market requirements, or delays in additional product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Additionally, the cost of capital to fund these businesses will likely require dilution of shareholders.. We plan to develop new products and services. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully develop these products and services.. Our business strategy outlines the use of the decades of experience we have accumulated to expand the services and products we offer to both U.S. Government agencies and commercial industries. These services and products involve new and untested technologies and business models. These technologies and business models may not be successful, which could result in the loss of any investment we make in developing them.. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to extensive Federal procurement rules and regulations as well as contractual obligations that are unique to doing business with the U.S. Government. Non-compliance with any such rules, regulations, or contractual obligations could negatively affect current programs, potential awards, and our ability to do business with the U.S. Government in the future.. U.S. Government contractors must comply with extensive procurement regulations and other requirements including, but not limited to, those appearing in the FAR and its supplements, as well as specific procurement rules and contractual conditions imposed by various U.S. Government agencies. Many of these types of requirements do not appear in our contracts with commercial customers or foreign governments. In particular, U.S. Government contracts typically contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the Government agencies rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including providing the Government agency with the ability to unilaterally:. •   terminate our existing contracts;. •   reduce the value of our existing contracts;. •   modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts;. •   suspend or permanently prohibit us from doing business with the government or with any specific government agency;. •   control and potentially prohibit the export of our products;. •   cancel or delay existing multiyear contracts and related orders if the necessary funds for contract performance for any subsequent year are not appropriated;. •   decline to exercise an option to extend an existing multiyear contract; and. •   claim rights to technologies and systems invented, developed, or produced by us.. U.S. Government agencies and the agencies of certain other governments with which we contract can terminate their contracts with us for convenience, and in that event, we generally may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If an agency terminates a contract with us for default, we may be denied any recovery and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the agency in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. Decisions by an agency to terminate one of our contracts for default could negatively affect our ability to win future awards not only from such agency, but also from other government agencies and commercial customers, many of whom evaluate past performance, or are required to review past performance information, when making their procurement decisions.. U.S. Government agencies may also initiate civil False Claims Act litigation against us based on allegations related to our performance of contracts for the U.S. Government, or to our compliance with procurement regulations and other legal requirements to which such contracts are subject, or both. Such litigation can be expensive to defend and, if found liable, can result in treble damages and significant civil penalties. The U.S. Government may also initiate administrative proceedings that, if resulting in an adverse finding against us or any of our subsidiaries as to our present responsibility to be a U.S.. 13. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in our company or our subsidiaries being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges and, if satisfying the requisite level of seriousness, in our debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government for a specified term as well as being subject to other remedies available to the U.S. Government.. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government.. U.S. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The U.S. Government may also review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm that may affect our non-governmental business if allegations of impropriety were made against us.. Certain of our U.S. Government contracts are dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, as well as our ability to obtain security clearances for the facilities in which we perform sensitive government work.. Certain of our U.S. Government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances. If we cannot maintain or obtain the required security clearances for our facilities and our employees, or obtain these clearances in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform certain U.S. Government contracts. Further, loss of a facility clearance, or an employee's failure to obtain or maintain a security clearance, could result in a U.S. Government customer terminating an existing contract or choosing not to renew a contract. Lack of required clearances could also impede our ability to bid on or win new U.S. Government contracts. This could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We incur substantial upfront, non-reimbursable costs in preparing proposals to bid on contracts that we may not be awarded.. Preparing a proposal to bid on a contract is labor-intensive and results in the incurrence of substantial costs that are generally not retrievable. Additionally, although we may be awarded a contract, work performance does not commence for several months following completion of the bidding process. If funding problems by the party awarding the contract or other matters further delay our commencement of work, these delays may lower the value of the contract, or possibly render it unprofitable.. A failure of a key information technology system, process, or site could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business.. We rely extensively on information technology systems to interact with our employees and our customers. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, transmitting data used by our service personnel and by and among our wide-spread personnel and facilities, complying with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage our business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from the failures of third-party service providers, to catastrophic events, to power outages, to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or financial condition.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and adversely affected by several factors.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, including:. •   our ability to execute our business plan;. •   operating results below expectations;. 14. •   our issuance of additional securities, including debt or equity or a combination thereof, necessary to fund our operating expenses;. •   announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. •   economic and other external factors;. •   period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and. •   whether an active trading market in our common stock develops and is maintained.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any return on investment in shares of common stock may be limited to the value of our common stock.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our capital stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition, and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on any investment in shares of our common stock will only occur if the common stock price appreciates.. A sale of a substantial number of shares of the common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. If our shareholders sell, or the market perceives that our shareholders intend to sell for various reasons, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.. If we fail to comply with the continued minimum closing bid requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market or other requirements for continued listing, our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted.. On August 24, 2017, we received a written notice (the \"Notice\") from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (\"NASDAQ\") that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), as the minimum bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. The Notice had no immediate effect on the listing of our common stock, and our common stock continues to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol \"ASTC\". In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had a period of 180 calendar days, or until February 20, 2018, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, on October 13, 2017, we filed Articles of Amendment to our Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (\"Articles of Incorporation\") to effect a 1-for-5 reverse stock split of all of our outstanding shares of common stock and a proportional reduction in the number of our authorized shares of common stock such that the number of authorized shares was reduced from 75,000,000 shares authorized to 15,000,000 shares authorized. The closing bid price of our common stock met or exceeded $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive business days following the effective date of our reverse stock split. In the event that our stock price declines below $1.00 per share in the future and we fail to comply with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), we may be eligible for an additional 180 calendar day grace period if we meet the initial listing standards, with the exception of bid price, for the NASDAQ Capital Market, and we provide written notice to NASDAQ of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period. If we do not regain compliance within the allotted compliance period(s), including any extensions that may be granted by NASDAQ, or fail to comply with other requirements for continued listing, our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market could materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors and employees and fewer business development opportunities.. 15. We are a smaller reporting company and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to such companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors.. We are a smaller reporting company, (i.e. a company with less than $250 million of public float) and we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of our choices, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and publicly disclose any material weaknesses in our controls.  Any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and significant expense to remediate, and ultimately could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design, and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our Company will have been detected.. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of a material weakness could require us to incur significant expenses and, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, our stock price may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or NASDAQ. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. Execution of restatements create a significant strain on our internal resources and could cause delays in our filing of quarterly or annual financial results, increase our costs, and cause management distraction. Restatements may also significantly affect our stock price in an adverse manner.. We can sell additional shares of common stock without consulting shareholders and without offering shares to existing shareholders, which would result in dilution of shareholders' interests in the Company and could depress our stock price.. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes 15,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 4,097,346 were outstanding as of June 30, 2018, and our Board is authorized to issue additional shares of our common stock. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation authorizes 2,500,000 shares of \"blank check preferred stock,\" none of which are currently outstanding and our Board is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock. Our Board has designated 300,000 shares as Series A Junior Preferred Stock, none of which are outstanding. The remaining 2,200,000 shares of \"blank check preferred stock\" may be issued in such series and with such rights, privileges, and limitations as the Board may, in its sole discretion, determine. Although our Board intends to utilize its reasonable business judgment to fulfill its fiduciary obligations to our then existing shareholders in connection with any future issuance of our capital stock, the future issuance of additional shares of our capital stock would cause immediate, and potentially substantial, dilution to our existing shareholders, which could also have a material effect on the market value of the shares. Furthermore, our Board may authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock, and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of the common stock. In addition, our Board could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than the common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of the common stock or result in dilution to our existing shareholders."
