[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows depend on the accuracy of our management's assumptions and estimates, and we could face significant losses if these assumptions and estimates differ significantly from actual results.. We make and rely on certain assumptions and estimates regarding many items, including interest rates, investment returns, expenses and operating costs, tax assets and liabilities, business mix, surrender activity, mortality and contingent liabilities, related to our business and anticipated results that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. We also use these assumptions and estimates to make decisions crucial to our business operations, including establishing pricing, target returns and expense structures for our insurance subsidiaries' products, determining the amount of reserves we are required to hold for our policy liabilities, the price we will pay to acquire or reinsure business, the hedging strategies to manage risks to our business and operations and the amount of regulatory and rating agency capital that our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support their businesses. The factors influencing these business decisions cannot be predicted with certainty and if our assumptions and estimates differ significantly from actual outcomes and results, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. Insurance Products and Liabilities. Pricing of our annuity and other insurance products, whether issued by us or acquired through reinsurance or acquisitions, is based upon assumptions about persistency. A factor which may affect persistency for some of our products is the value of guaranteed minimum benefits. An increase in the value of guaranteed minimum benefits could result in our policies remaining in force longer than we have estimated, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be caused by extended periods of poor equity market performance and/or low interest rates, developments affecting customer perception and other factors outside our control. Alternatively, our persistency estimates could be negatively affected during periods of rising equity markets or interest rates or by other factors outside our control, which could result in fewer policies remaining in force than estimated. Therefore, our results will vary based on differences between actual and expected withdrawals from our subsidiaries' products.. Certain of our deferred annuity products also contain optional benefit riders, including guaranteed lifetime income or death benefits, that may be exercised at certain points of time under the terms of a contract. We set prices for such products using assumptions about mortality, the rate of election of deferred annuity living benefits and other optional benefits offered to our policyholders. The profitability of these products may be lower than expected if actual policyholder utilization of these benefits varies adversely from our assumptions.. We license analytic software with actuarial modeling capabilities from third parties to facilitate the pricing of our products, make projections of our in-force business for planning purposes and objectively assess the risks in our subsidiaries' insurance and reinsurance asset and liability portfolios. These actuarial models help us to measure and control risk accumulation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and manage the risk/return profile and amount of capital required to cover the risks in each of our subsidiaries' insurance and reinsurance contracts and our overall portfolio of insurance and reinsurance contracts. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, these models and databases may not accurately address the emergence of a variety of matters which might impact certain of our subsidiaries' products. Accordingly, these models may inaccurately predict the exposures that our subsidiaries are assuming and our financial results may be adversely impacted, perhaps significantly.. If emerging or actual experience deviates from our assumptions regarding any of the above factors, such deviations could have a significant effect on our reserve levels and our related results of operations and financial condition. For example, a significant portion of our in-force and newly issued products contain riders that offer guaranteed lifetime income or death benefits. These riders expose us to mortality, longevity and policyholder behavior risks. If actual utilization of certain rider benefits is adverse when compared to our estimates used in setting our reserves for future policy benefits, these reserves may prove to be inadequate and we may be required to increase them. Conversely, if policies lapse at a significantly higher rate than expected, we may need to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred sales inducement (DSI) balances. More generally, deviations from our pricing expectations could result in our subsidiaries earning less of a spread between the investment income earned on our subsidiaries' assets and the interest credited to such products and other costs incurred in servicing the products, or may require our subsidiaries to make more payments under certain products than our subsidiaries had projected. We have limited experience to date on policyholder behavior for our guaranteed minimum benefit products. As a result, future experience could deviate significantly from our assumptions. Such acceleration of expense amortization, reduced spread or increased payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Determination of Fair Value. As defined under GAAP, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market participants in the principal market or in the most advantageous market when no principal market exists. Adjustments to transaction prices or quoted market prices may be required in illiquid or disorderly markets in order to estimate fair value. Different valuation techniques may be appropriate under the circumstances to determine the value that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction. Market participants are assumed to be independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange and not under duress. Nonperformance or credit risk is considered in determining fair value. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange.. 43. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. For example, the valuation of investments involves considerable judgment, is subject to considerable variability and is revised as additional information becomes available. As such, changes in, or deviations from, the assumptions used in such valuations can significantly affect our financial statements. During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly changing credit spreads or illiquidity, if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable, it has been and will likely continue to be difficult to value certain of our investments, such as certain of our real-estate related investments, structured products and alternative investments. There may be certain asset classes in active markets with significant observable data that could become illiquid in a difficult financial environment. Further, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of investments as reported within our financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Our ability to sell investments, or the price ultimately realized for investments, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain investments. Even if our assumptions and valuations are accurate at the time that they are made, the same factors influencing our valuations of such investments could cause the market value of these investments to decline, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Additionally, we also use, and may in the future use, derivatives, including swaps, options, futures and forward contracts, and reinsurance contracts to hedge risks such as current or future changes in the fair value of our assets and liabilities, current or future changes in cash flows, changes in interest rates, equity markets and credit spreads, the occurrence of credit defaults, currency fluctuations and changes in mortality and longevity. We use equity derivatives to hedge the liabilities associated with our FIAs. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets, liabilities (including with respect to the optional benefits offered as part of our products), general market factors and the creditworthiness of our counterparties that may prove to be incorrect or inadequate. Accordingly, our hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs, and if we terminate any hedging arrangements, including reinsurance contracts, we may also be required to pay additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. We may also incur losses on transactions after taking into account our hedging strategies, which may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows.. Financial Statements and Results. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in accordance with GAAP requires management to make various estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. These estimates include, but are not limited to, the fair value of investments, impairment of investments and valuation allowances, the valuation of derivatives, including embedded derivatives, DAC, DSI and VOBA, future policy benefit reserves, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation. For example, the calculations we use to estimate DAC, DSI and VOBA are necessarily complex and involve analyzing and interpreting large quantities of data. The assumptions and estimates required for these calculations involve judgment and by their nature are imprecise and subject to changes and revisions over time. Accordingly, our results may be adversely affected from time to time by actual results differing from assumptions, changes in estimates and changes resulting from implementing more sophisticated administrative systems and procedures that facilitate the calculation of more precise estimates. Any of these inaccuracies could require us, among other things, to accelerate the amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA, which would result in a charge to earnings, or in a restatement of our historical financial statements or other material adjustments to our financial statements. Additionally, the potential for unforeseen developments, including changes in laws, may result in losses and loss expenses materially different from the reserves initially established, which could also materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. BEAT Mitigating Actions. In light of the possibility of material additional tax cost to our U.S. subsidiaries and the lack of clear guidance regarding the appropriate method by which to compute the BEAT, we are undertaking certain actions and exploring various alternatives intended to mitigate the potential effect of the BEAT on our results of operations in the event it is determined that none of the amounts paid or accrued by ALRe to our U.S. subsidiaries are taken into account in the calculation of \"base erosion payments\" or \"base erosion tax benefit.\" We have made estimates regarding the overall tax rate we expect to experience as a result of undertaking such actions. The determination of each such figure, or range of figures, involves numerous estimates and assumptions regarding the efficacy of such actions in bringing about the desired outcomes and the magnitude of such outcomes to be experienced. To the extent that actual experience differs from the estimates and assumptions inherent in our projections, our future overall tax rate may deviate materially from the estimates provided and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially less favorable than are implied by the projections provided.. 44. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The amount of statutory capital that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have, or that they are required to hold, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control.. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that provide for MCR based on RBC formulas for life insurance companies relating to insurance, business, asset, interest rate and certain other risks. Similarly, ALRe is subject to MCR imposed by the BMA through its ECR and MMS. The BSCR is based on the BMA's Economic Balance Sheet (EBS) regulatory framework, which was granted equivalency to Solvency II in March 2016.. In any particular year, our subsidiaries' capital ratios and/or statutory surplus amounts may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the following:. • the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity, credit, and real estate market conditions);. • the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support their business growth;. • changes in reserve requirements applicable to our insurance subsidiaries;. • changes in market value of certain securities in our investment portfolio;. • recognition of write-downs or other losses on investments held in our investment portfolio;. • changes in the credit ratings of investments held in our investment portfolio;. • the value of certain derivative instruments;. • changes in interest rates;. • credit market volatility;. • changes in policyholder behavior;. • changes to the RBC formulas and interpretations of the NAIC instructions with respect to RBC calculation methodologies; and. • changes to the ECR, BSCR, or TCL formulas and interpretations of the BMA's instructions with respect to ECR, BSCR, or TCL calculation methodologies.. The financial strength and credit ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are significantly influenced by their statutory surplus amounts and these MCRs. NRSROs may also implement changes to their internal models, which differ from the RBC and BSCR capital models, that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital our subsidiaries must hold in order to maintain their current ratings. Additional statutory reserves may be required as the result of mandatory annual asset adequacy analysis, and rising or falling interest rates and widening credit spreads could alter this cash flow testing analysis. In addition, NRSROs may downgrade the investments held in our portfolio, which could result in impairments and therefore a reduction of the RBC ratios of our U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries or an increase in the ECR of ALRe. Lower corporate tax rates may also impact capital and capital ratios such as RBC ratios, as lower tax rates reduce the value of deferred tax assets and may lower the calculated RBC ratio. However, following the adoption of the recent tax changes, the NAIC and the rating agencies have yet to promulgate changes to their capital models and factors.. To the extent that one of our insurance subsidiary's solvency or capital ratios is deemed to be insufficient by one or more NRSROs, we may take actions either to increase the capitalization of the insurer or to reduce the capitalization requirements. If we are unable to accomplish such actions, NRSROs may view this as a reason for a ratings downgrade. If a subsidiary's solvency or capital ratios reach certain minimum levels, it could subject us to further examination or corrective action imposed by our insurance regulators, including limitations on our subsidiaries' ability to write additional business, supervision by regulators, seizure or liquidation, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. The BMA released consultation papers in November 2016, March 2017 and November 2017 that propose further updates to certain aspects of the EBS framework. The BMA is expected to release final guidance mid-2018 after reviewing industry trial run results of these changes. The final rules are expected to take effect on January 1, 2019. If the final guidance, when completed and adopted, materially increases the ECR, it could materially and adversely affect our BSCR ratio and, correspondingly, our capital in excess of BMA requirements.. 45. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Interest rate risk is a significant market risk for us. We define interest rate risk as the risk of an economic loss due to changes in interest rates. This risk arises from our holdings in interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, primarily as a result of issuing or reinsuring fixed deferred and immediate annuities and investing primarily in fixed income assets. As of December 31, 2017, reserves for fixed deferred and immediate annuities net of reinsurance made up the substantial majority of our reserve liabilities. Substantial and sustained increases or decreases in market interest rates can affect the profitability of our insurance products and the fair value of our investments. These fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, including in the following respects:. • Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not realizing anticipated spreads between overall net investment earned rates and the crediting rates to our policyholders, which are a significant source of our adjusted operating income. We have the ability to adjust crediting rates, including caps and participation rates for FIAs, on many of our annuity liabilities (subject to minimum guaranteed values). However, we may not be able to adjust such rates in a timely manner or to the extent desired to adequately respond to the effect that changes in interest rates may have on the returns on our investments. Many of our annuity products have surrender and withdrawal penalty provisions designed to prevent early policyholder withdrawals in rising interest rate environments and to help ensure targeted spreads are earned. However, competitive factors, including the need or desire to manage levels of surrenders and withdrawals, may limit our ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid narrowing of spreads under certain market conditions.. • Changes in interest rates may also negatively affect the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains or avoid losses from the sale of those assets, all of which also ultimately affect our earnings and/or capital. Significant volatility in interest rates may have a larger adverse impact on certain assets in our investment portfolio which are highly structured or have limited liquidity, including our real estate-related assets, structured products and alternative investments, which may not have active trading markets, making the disposition of such assets difficult.. • Changes in interest rates may also affect changes in prepayment rates on certain of the real estate-related assets, structured products and alternative investments in which we invest. For instance, falling interest rates may accelerate the rate of prepayment on mortgage loans, while rising interest rates may decrease such prepayments below the level of our expectations. At the same time, falling interest rates may result in the lengthening of duration for our policies and liabilities due to the guaranteed minimum benefits contained in our products, while rising interest rates could lead to increased policyholder withdrawals and a shortening of duration for our liabilities. In either case, we could experience a mismatch in our assets and liabilities and potentially incur economic losses, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • During periods of declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive to consumers due to minimum guarantees that are mandated by law or by regulators at the time that we price these products, resulting in a higher persistency than we anticipated, potentially resulting in greater claims costs on our guaranteed minimum benefit riders than we expected and cash flow mismatches between our assets and liabilities. In addition, the surrender and withdrawal penalties we impose on certain of our annuity products may further increase persistency during such periods. Certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and an extended period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold and the amount of assets we must allocate to support statutory reserves, which could decrease the spread income that we are able to earn from these products. This reduced spread could also force us to accelerate amortization of DAC and/or VOBA, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. • Additionally, during periods of declining interest rates, we may have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments into lower-yielding high-grade instruments or seek lower-credit instruments in order to maintain comparable returns, each of which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. • Certain securitized financial assets are accounted for based on expectations of future cash flows. To the extent the coupon on these instruments or the underlying collateral is based on a reference rate (for example, LIBOR), we use the market observed forward curve in our cash flow projections. As of December 31, 2017, we held $22.4 billion of securitized financial assets that have floating rate coupons or adjustable rate collateral. To the extent interest rates are lower than we have projected, we will experience slower accretion of discounts on these assets and will have a lower yield on our portfolio, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. • An extended period of declining interest rates or a prolonged period of low interest rates may cause us to change our long-term view of the interest rates that we can earn on our investments, causing us to change the long-term interest rate that we assume in our evaluation of our insurance liabilities, reducing the attractiveness of our subsidiaries' products.. 46. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. • In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, withdrawals from and/or surrenders of annuity contracts may increase as policyholders choose to seek higher investment returns elsewhere. Obtaining cash to satisfy these obligations may require our insurance subsidiaries to liquidate fixed income investments at a time when market prices for those assets are depressed because of increases in interest rates. This may result in realized investment losses. Regardless of whether we realize an investment loss, such cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets and may decrease our levels of profitability or results of operations. Premature withdrawals or unexpected surrenders may also cause us to accelerate amortization of DAC and/or VOBA, which would also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. • An increase in market interest rates could also reduce the value of certain of our alternative investments held as collateral under reinsurance agreements and create a need for ALRe to provide additional collateral to support the reserve requirements of our ceding companies, thereby reducing our available capital and potentially creating a need for additional capital which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, when needed.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that includes a number of competitors, many of which are larger and more well-known than we are, which could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. We operate in highly competitive markets and compete with large and small industry participants. These companies compete for an increasing pool of retirement assets, driven primarily by aging of the U.S. population and the reduction in, and concerns about the viability of, financial safety nets historically provided by governments and employers. In each of our subsidiaries' businesses we face intense competition, including from U.S. and non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance companies, broker-dealers, financial advisors, asset managers and diversified financial institutions, both for customers for our subsidiaries' products and in the acquisition and block reinsurance markets. We compete based on a number of factors including perceived financial strength, credit ratings, brand recognition, reputation, quality of service, performance of our products, product features, scope of distribution and price. A decline in our competitive position as to one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, we may in the future sacrifice our competitive or market position in order to improve our short-term profitability, particularly in the highly competitive retail markets, which may adversely affect our long-term growth and results of operations. Alternatively, we may sacrifice short-term profitability to maintain market share and long-term growth.. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry due to economic turmoil resulting in increased competition from large, efficient, well-capitalized financial services firms. Many of our competitors are large and well-established and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk while maintaining financial strength ratings or have higher financial strength, claims-paying or credit ratings than we do. Our competitors may also have lower operating costs or return on capital requirements than we do which may allow them to price products, reinsurance arrangements or acquisitions more competitively. The competitive pressures arising from consolidation could result in increased pressure on the pricing of certain of our products and services, and could harm our ability to maintain or increase profitability. In addition, if our financial strength and credit ratings remain lower than the ratings of certain of our competitors, we may experience increased surrenders and/or an inability to reach sales targets, which may have a material and adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. A significant portion of our retail annuities are sold through a proprietary distribution network.. We distribute annuity products through independent producers affiliated with certain IMOs. A significant portion of our retail annuity production results from sales of product in our BalancedChoice Annuity product series, which contains certain product features that are licensed from a third-party actuarial firm. Only IMOs which are affiliated with the Annexus Group are permitted to distribute the BalancedChoice Annuity product series. If we experienced a disruption in our relationship with the Annexus Group, it could have an adverse effect for a period of time on our annuity sales of this product series.. We are subject to general economic conditions, including prevailing interest rates, levels of unemployment and financial and equity and credit market performance, which may affect, among other things, our ability to sell our products, the fair value of our investments and whether such investments become impaired and the surrender rate and profitability of our policies.. Factors such as equity prices, equity market volatility, interest rates, counterparty risks, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws or regulations (including laws relating to the financial markets generally or the taxation or regulation of the insurance industry), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including governmental instability, wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material impact on the value of our investment portfolio and our subsidiaries' ability to sell their products. Equity market volatility can negatively affect our revenues and profitability in various ways, particularly as a result of guaranteed minimum withdrawal or surrender benefits in our products. The estimated cost of providing guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits incorporates various assumptions about the overall performance of equity markets over certain time periods. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction in our revenues and net income. The rate of amortization of DAC and VOBA costs relating to FIA products and the cost of providing guaranteed minimum withdrawal or surrender benefits could also increase if equity market performance is worse than assumed, which could have a material and adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 47. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our investments are subject to market and credit risks that could diminish their value and these risks could be greater during periods of extreme volatility or disruption in the financial and credit markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our investments and derivative financial instruments are subject to risks of credit defaults and changes in market values. Periods of macroeconomic weakness or recession, heightened volatility or disruption in the financial and credit markets could increase these risks, potentially resulting in other than temporary impairment of assets in our investment portfolio. We are also subject to the risk that cash flows resulting from payments on assets that serve as collateral underlying the structured products we own may differ from our expectations in timing or size. In addition, many of our classes of investments, but in particular our alternative investments, may produce investment income that fluctuates from period to period and is more variable than may be the case with other asset classes, such as corporate bonds. Any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities, other than on a temporary basis, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If our investment manager, AAM, fails to react appropriately to difficult market, economic and geopolitical conditions, our investment portfolio could incur material losses. Some of our investments are more vulnerable to these risks than others, as described more fully below.. As of December 31, 2017, 81% of our total invested assets were invested in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, and short-term investments, including our investments in investment grade and high-yield corporate bonds and structured products, which include RMBS and CLOs. As of December 31, 2017, 48% of our total invested assets were invested in non-structured investment grade bonds, 3% in high-yield non-structured securities, and 6% in structured securities (other than CMBS, RMBS and CLOs). Issuers or guarantors of such fixed income securities may default on principal or interest payments they owe us, or the underlying collateral may default on such payments, causing an adverse change in cash flows. An economic downturn affecting the issuers or underlying collateral of these securities, a ratings downgrade affecting the issuers or guarantors of such securities, or similar trends and issues could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and the default rates of the fixed income securities in our portfolio to increase.. As of December 31, 2017, 7% of our total invested assets were invested in senior and mezzanine tranches issued by CLOs and 0.2% were invested in equity tranches issued by CLOs. As of December 31, 2017, 95% of our investments in CLOs were managed by Apollo and its affiliates other than AAM. CLOs are a form of securitization where payments from multiple large business loans, generally below investment grade, are pooled together and sold to different classes of owners in various tranches. Senior tranches of CLOs have some protection from credit losses by more junior tranches while junior tranches often have higher yields than those of the collateral loans and receive higher coupons to compensate for higher risk. CLOs thus provide investment opportunities with varying risk/return profiles and diversified exposure to multiple borrowers. Control over the CLOs in which we invest is exercised through collateral managers, who may take actions that could adversely affect our interests, and we may not have the right to direct collateral management. There may also be less information available to us regarding the underlying debt instruments held by CLOs than if we had invested directly in the debt of the underlying companies. Additionally, as subordinated interests, the estimated fair values of CLOs tend to be much more sensitive to adverse economic downturns and underlying borrower defaults than those of more senior securities. For example, as the secondary market pricing of the loans underlying CLOs deteriorated during the fourth quarter of 2008, it is our understanding that many investors were forced to raise cash by selling their interests in performing loans which resulted in a forced deleveraging cycle of price declines, compulsory sales and further price declines. While loan prices have recovered from the low levels experienced during the financial crisis, conditions in the large corporate leveraged loan market may deteriorate again, which may cause pricing levels to decline. Furthermore, our investments in CLOs are also subject to liquidity risk as there is a limited market for CLOs. Accordingly, we may suffer unrealized depreciation and could incur realized losses in connection with the sale of our CLO interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a risk management framework in place to identify, assess and prioritize risks, including the market and credit risks to which our investments are subject. As part of that framework, we test our investment portfolio based on various market scenarios. Under certain stressed market scenarios, unrealized losses on our investment portfolio could lead to material reductions in its carrying value. Under some extreme scenarios, total AHL shareholders' equity could be negative for the period of time prior to any potential market recovery. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks.. A decline in fair value below the amortized cost of a security requires management to assess whether an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) has occurred. The decision on whether to record an OTTI is determined in part by our assessment of the financial condition and prospects of a particular issuer, projections of future cash flows and recoverability of the particular security as well as management's assertion of whether it is more likely than not that we will sell the particular security before recovery.. 48. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our investments linked to real estate are subject to credit risk, market risk, servicing risk, loss from catastrophic events and other risks, which could diminish the value that we obtain from such investments.. As of December 31, 2017, 25% of our invested assets were linked to real estate, including 16% fixed maturity and equity securities, such as CMBS and RMBS, 8% commercial mortgage loans (CML) and RML, and 1% real estate held for investment. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations underlying these assets could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the recognition of investment losses. For example, the value of our real estate-related assets depends in part on the financial condition of the borrowers, the value of the real properties underlying the mortgages and, for commercial properties, the financial condition of the tenants of the properties underlying those mortgages, as well as general and specific economic trends affecting the overall default rate. An unexpectedly high rate of default on mortgages held by a CMBS or RMBS may limit substantially the ability of the issuer of such security to make payments to holders of such securities, reducing the value of those securities or rendering them worthless. The risk of such defaults is generally higher in the case of mortgage securitizations that include \"sub-prime\" or \"alt-A\" mortgages. As of December 31, 2017, 29% of our holdings in assets linked to real estate were invested in such \"sub-prime\" mortgages and \"alt-A\" mortgages. Changes in laws and other regulatory developments relating to mortgage loans may impact the investments of our portfolio linked to real estate in the future. Additionally, cash flow variability arising from an unexpected acceleration in mortgage prepayment behavior can be significant, and could cause a decline in the estimated fair value of certain \"interest only\" securities or loans.. The CML we hold, and CML underlying the CMBS that we hold, face both default and delinquency risk. For CML that we hold directly, we establish loan specific estimated impairments at each balance sheet date based on the excess carrying value of a loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan's collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan's observable market price. We also establish valuation allowances for loan losses when it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2017, our CML investments comprised 7% of our total invested assets, of which 0.01% were in the process of foreclosure. Legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of CML, an increase in the delinquency or default rate of our CML portfolio or geographic or sector concentration within our CML portfolio could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our investments in RML and RMBS also present credit risk. Higher than expected rates of default or loss severities on our RML investments and the RML underlying our RMBS investments may adversely affect the value of such investments. A significant number of the mortgages underlying our RML and RMBS investments are concentrated in certain geographic areas. Certain markets within those areas experienced significant decreases in home values during the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and the years thereafter. Any event that adversely affects the economic or real estate market in any of these areas could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our RML and RMBS investments. While we actively monitor our exposure to these and other risks inherent in this strategy, we cannot assure you that our hedging and risk management strategies will be effective; any failure to manage these risks effectively could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A rise in home prices, the concern over further introduction of or changes to government policies aimed at altering prepayment behavior, and an increased availability of housing-related credit could combine to increase expected or actual prepayment speeds, which would likely lower the valuations of RML and the valuations of RMBS that we carry at a premium to par prices or are structured as interest only securities and inverse interest only securities. In general, any significant weakness in the broader macro economy or significant problems in a particular real estate market may cause a decline in the value of residential properties securing the mortgages in that market, thereby increasing the risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our credit loss experience.. Control over the underlying assets in all of our real estate-related investments is exercised through a servicer that we do not control. If a servicer is not vigilant in seeing that borrowers make their required periodic payments, borrowers may be less likely to make these payments, resulting in a higher frequency of delinquency and default. If a servicer takes longer to liquidate non-performing mortgages, our losses related to those loans may be higher than we expected. Any failure by a servicer to service RMLs in which we are invested in a prudent, commercially reasonable manner or which underlie a RMBS in which we are invested could negatively impact the value of our investments in the related RML or RMBS.. Our investments in assets linked to real estate are also subject to loss in the event of catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes and fires. We have significant concentrations of real estate investments and collateral underlying investments linked to real estate in areas of the United States prone to catastrophe, including California, sections of the northeastern U.S., the South Atlantic states and the Gulf Coast. While loss experience in the event of a catastrophic event is contingent upon many factors, including the insured status of the underlying property and the seniority of our investment, in the case of structured securities, a catastrophic event impacting one or more of the aforementioned regions may cause some portion of the invested assets invested in assets linked to real estate to become impaired, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to the credit and market risk that we face in relation to all of our real estate-related investments, certain of these investments may expose us to various environmental, regulatory and other risks. For example, our investment in RML could result in claims being assessed against us as a mortgage holder or property owner, including assignee liability, responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, including liabilities under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. We may continue to be liable under such claims after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us. Additionally, we may be subject to regulation by the CFPB as a mortgage holder or property owner. We are currently unable to predict the impact of such regulation on our business. Any adverse environmental claim or regulatory action against us resulting from our investment in RML could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 49. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Many of our invested assets are relatively illiquid and we may fail to realize profits from these assets for a considerable period of time, or lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in these assets if we are required to sell our invested assets at a loss at inopportune times to cover policyholder withdrawals or to meet our insurance, reinsurance or other obligations.. We offer certain products that allow policyholders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. In order to meet such obligations, we seek to manage our liabilities and configure our investment portfolios to provide and maintain sufficient liquidity to support expected withdrawal demands and contract benefits and maturities. However, in order to provide necessary long-term returns and to achieve our strategic goals, a certain portion of our assets are relatively illiquid. Many of our investments are in securities that are not publicly traded or that otherwise lack liquidity, such as our privately placed fixed maturity securities, below investment grade securities, investments in mortgage loans and alternative investments.. We record our relatively illiquid types of investments at fair value. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. In many cases, we may be prohibited by contract or applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. When we hold a security or position, it is vulnerable to price and value fluctuations and may experience losses if we are unable to timely sell, hedge or transfer the position. Thus, it may be impossible or costly for us to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet unexpected withdrawal or recapture obligations. This potential mismatch between the liquidity of our assets and liabilities could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our investment portfolio may be subject to concentration risk, particularly with respect to single issuers, including MidCap and AmeriHome, industries, including financial services, and asset classes, including real estate.. Concentration risk arises from exposure to significant asset defaults of a single issuer, industry or class of securities, based on economic conditions, geography or as a result of adverse regulatory or court decisions. When an investor's assets are concentrated and that particular asset or class of assets experiences significant defaults, the default of such assets could threaten the investor's financial condition. Our most significant potential exposures to concentration risk are our investments in MidCap, a provider of revolving and term debt facilities to middle market companies in North America and Europe, and in A-A Mortgage and its indirect investment in AmeriHome, a mortgage lender and mortgage servicer. As of December 31, 2017, our exposure, including loaned amounts, to MidCap was $766 million, which represented 1% of our total invested assets and 8% of total AHL shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2017, our exposure to A-A Mortgage was $496 million, which represented less than 1% of our total invested assets and 5% of total AHL shareholders' equity. To the extent that we suffer a significant loss on our investment in MidCap or A-A Mortgage, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our significant single issuer holdings, including MidCap and AmeriHome, are concentrated largely in the financial services industry and such businesses' activities largely focus upon providing financing to both individuals and entities. As a result, we have significant exposure to credit risk, which may be adversely impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, regulation and other factors. To the extent that such changes occur and cause a deterioration in the creditworthiness of the counterparties of these investees, we may suffer significant losses on our investments in these entities and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to the concentration risk arising from our investments in single issuers within the financial services industry, we have significant exposure to this industry as a result of the composition of investments in our broader investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, 17% of our total invested assets were invested in issuers within the financial services industry, excluding CLOs. Any macroeconomic, regulatory or other changes having an adverse impact on the financial services industry more broadly, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, 25% of our total invested assets were invested in real estate-related assets. Any significant decline in the value of real estate generally or the occurrence of any of the risks described above with respect to our real estate-related investments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our investment portfolio may include investments in securities of issuers based outside the U.S., including emerging markets, which may be riskier than securities of U.S. issuers.. We may invest in securities of issuers organized or based outside the U.S. that may involve heightened risks in comparison to the risks of investing in U.S. securities, including unfavorable changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations, reduced and less reliable information about issuers and markets, less stringent accounting standards, illiquidity of securities and markets, higher brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and custody fees, local economic or political instability and greater market risk in general. In particular, investing in securities of issuers located in emerging market countries involves additional risks, such as exposure to economic structures that are generally less diverse and mature than, and to political systems that can be expected to have less stability than, those of developed countries, national policies that restrict investment by foreigners in certain issuers or industries of that country, the absence of legal structures governing foreign investment and private property and an increased risk of foreclosure on collateral located in such countries, a lack of liquidity due to the small size of markets for securities of issuers located in emerging markets and price volatility.. 50. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. As of December 31, 2017, 33% of the carrying value of our AFS fixed maturity securities, including related parties, was comprised of securities of issuers based outside of the U.S. and debt securities of foreign governments. Of our total AFS fixed maturity securities, including related parties as of December 31, 2017, 8% were invested in CLOs of Cayman Islands issuers (where underlying assets are largely loans to U.S. issuers), 6% were invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers by our German Group Companies and 19% were invested in other non-U.S. issuers. While we invest in securities of non-U.S. issuers, the currency denominations of such securities usually match the currency denominations of the liabilities that the assets support. When the currency denominations of the assets and liabilities do not match, we generally undertake hedging activities to eliminate or mitigate currency mismatch risk. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Consolidated Investment Portfolio for further information on international exposure.. Our growth strategy includes acquiring business through acquisitions of other insurance companies and reinsurance of insurance obligations written by unaffiliated insurance companies, and our ability to consummate these acquisitions on economically advantageous terms acceptable to us in the future is unknown.. We have grown and intend to grow our business in the future in part by acquisitions of other insurance companies and businesses, and through block reinsurance, which could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We may experience challenges identifying, financing, consummating and integrating such acquisitions and block reinsurance transactions. While we have reviewed various opportunities and have successfully completed transactions in the past to facilitate our growth, competition exists in the market for profitable blocks of insurance and businesses. Such competition is likely to intensify as insurance businesses become more attractive targets. It is also possible that merger and acquisition transactions will become less frequent, which could also make it more difficult for us to implement our growth strategy as we have done in the past. Thus, in the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition or block reinsurance opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the transactions on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, to the extent we determine to finance an acquisition or block reinsurance transaction, suitable financing arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Our acquisition and block reinsurance transaction activities may also divert the attention of our management from our business, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Occasionally we may acquire or seek to acquire an insurance company or business that writes traditional life insurance business or other businesses that are not core to our business. In the past, except in limited circumstances, we have arranged for the sale or transfer, through reinsurance or otherwise, of such business prior to or following our acquisitions to the extent that we did not want to retain these non-core businesses. As we grow, the ability of our management to transfer or source sufficient reasonably priced reinsurance for traditional life insurance or other non-core businesses that we may acquire and want to dispose of may be limited. As we acquire new businesses and write a larger volume of business, it may be difficult to find buyers or reinsurers willing to assume increased risk, and added reinsurance may increase the associated costs. Ultimately, we may not be able to find buyers or source adequate reinsurance at all. In the event that we were unable to find buyers or purchase adequate reinsurance, we would have to accept an increase in our net risk exposures, revise our pricing to reflect higher reinsurance premiums, or otherwise modify our acquisitions and product offerings, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In furtherance of our strategy of growth through acquisitions, we routinely review and conduct investigations of potential acquisitions or block reinsurance transactions, some of which may be material. When we believe a favorable opportunity exists, we seek to enter into discussions with target companies or sellers regarding the possibility of such transactions. At any given time, we may be in discussions with one or more counterparties. There can be no assurance that any such negotiations will lead to definitive agreements, or if such agreements are reached, that any transactions would be consummated.. If we are unable to attract and retain IMOs and agents, sales of our products may be adversely affected.. We distribute our annuity products through a variable cost distribution network which currently includes approximately 65 IMOs and more than 34,000 independent agents. Insurance companies compete vigorously for productive and profitable agents. We must attract and retain such marketers and agents to sell our products. We compete with other life insurance companies for marketers and agents primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features. Such marketers and agents may promote products offered by other life insurance companies that may offer a larger variety of products than we do. Our competitiveness for such marketers and agents also depends upon the long-term relationships we develop with them. There can be no assurance that such relationships will continue in the future. In addition, our growth plans include increasing the distribution of annuity products through small and mid-size banks and regional broker-dealers. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient marketers and agents to sell our products or we are not successful in expanding our distribution channels within the bank and broker-dealer markets, our ability to compete and our sales volumes and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 51. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Repurchase agreement programs subject us to potential liquidity and other risks.. We may engage in repurchase agreement transactions whereby we sell fixed income securities to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms or commercial banks, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase such securities at a determined future date. These repurchase agreements provide us with liquidity and in certain instances also allow us to earn spread income. Under such agreements we may be required to deliver additional securities or cash as margin to the counterparty if the value of the securities sold decreases prior to the repurchase date. The cash proceeds received by us under such repurchase agreements are typically invested in fixed income securities and may not be available to be returned prior to the scheduled repurchase date, and it is possible that we will enter into other repurchase transactions and use cash proceeds from such transactions to pay the repurchase prices on maturing repurchase transactions. Repurchase agreements, however, are generally not committed arrangements, and market and other conditions on the repurchase date or at other times may limit our ability to enter into new repurchase transactions or to enter into transactions on favorable terms. To the extent that we are not able to enter into new transactions or to enter into sufficient new transactions, we may need to find other sources to pay the repurchase prices under these transactions, which may or may not be available to us. Additionally, during difficult market situations, we may not be able to access funds under such repurchase agreements, which may require us to sell securities on unfavorable terms in order to ensure short-term liquidity.. In some cases, the maturity of the securities purchased by us with the cash proceeds received in the repurchase transaction may exceed the term of the related transaction and/or the market value of securities sold in such repurchase transactions may fall below stipulated margin requirements in the applicable repurchase agreement. If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral or post cash or securities as margin on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet such obligations, we may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner, may be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than they otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under adverse capital market and economic conditions, liquidity may broadly deteriorate, which would further restrict our ability to sell securities.. A financial strength rating downgrade, potential downgrade or any other negative action by a rating agency could make our product offerings less attractive, inhibit our ability to acquire future business through acquisitions or reinsurance and increase our cost of capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Various NRSROs review the financial performance and condition of insurers and reinsurers, including our subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer's ability to meet policyholder obligations. These ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries' products, our insurance subsidiaries' ability to market their products and our competitive position. Factors that could negatively influence this analysis include:. • changes to our business practices or organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports our ratings;. • unfavorable financial or market trends;. • a need to increase reserves to support our outstanding insurance obligations;. • our inability to retain our senior management and other key personnel;. • rapid or excessive growth, especially through large reinsurance transactions or acquisitions, beyond the bounds of capital sufficiency or management capabilities as judged by the NRSROs;. • significant losses to our investment portfolio; and. • changes in NRSROs' capital adequacy assessment methodologies in a manner that would adversely affect the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries.. Some other factors may also relate to circumstances outside of our control, such as views of the NRSRO and general economic conditions. Any downgrade or other negative action by a NRSRO with respect to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, or an entity we acquire, or our credit ratings, could materially adversely affect us and our ability to compete in many ways, including the following:. • reducing new sales of insurance products;. • harming relationships with or perceptions of distributors, IMOs and sales agents;. • increasing the number or amount of policy lapses or surrenders and withdrawals of funds, which may result in a mismatch of our overall asset and liability position;. • requiring us to offer higher crediting rates or greater policyholder guarantees on our insurance products in order to remain competitive;. • increase our borrowing costs;. • reducing our level of profitability and capital position generally or hindering our ability to raise new capital; or. • requiring us to collateralize obligations under or result in early or unplanned termination of hedging agreements and harming our ability to enter into new hedging agreements.. In order to improve or maintain their financial strength ratings, our subsidiaries may attempt to implement business strategies to improve their capital ratios. We cannot guarantee any such measures will be successful. We cannot predict what actions NRSROs may take in the future, and failure to improve or maintain current financial strength ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 52. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We are subject to significant operating and financial restrictions imposed by our credit agreement and we are also subject to certain operating restrictions imposed by the indenture to which we are a party.. The credit agreement dated January 22, 2016, by and among AHL, ALRe and Athene USA, as borrowers, each lender from time to time party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent (Credit Facility) contains various restrictive covenants which limit, among other things, AHL's, ALRe's and Athene USA's ability, and in certain instances, some or all of their subsidiaries' ability, to:. • incur additional indebtedness, make guarantees and enter into derivative arrangements;. • create liens on our or such subsidiaries' assets;. • make fundamental changes;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • make changes in the nature of our business; and. • pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our common shares.. These covenants, some of which are financial, may prevent or restrict us from capitalizing on business opportunities, including making additional acquisitions or growing our business. In addition, if AHL undergoes a \"change of control\" as defined in the Credit Facility, the lenders under the Credit Facility will have the right to terminate the facility and/or accelerate the maturity of all outstanding loans. As of December 31, 2017, AHL was in compliance with all covenants and no borrowings under the Credit Facility were outstanding. As a result of these restrictions and their effects on us, we may be limited in how we conduct our business and may be unable to raise additional debt financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. In addition to the covenants to which we are subject pursuant to our Credit Facility, AHL is also subject to certain limited covenants pursuant to the Indenture, dated January 12, 2018, by and between us and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (Base Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 12, 2018, by and among us and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (together with the Base Indenture, Indenture). The Indenture was entered into in connection with AHL's issuance of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2028 and contains restrictive covenants which limit, subject to certain exceptions, AHL's and, in certain instances, some or all of its subsidiaries' ability to make fundamental changes, create liens on any capital stock of certain of AHL's subsidiaries, and sell or dispose of the stock of certain of AHL's subsidiaries. These covenants may prevent or restrict takeovers or business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interest.. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur may contain additional restrictive covenants.. We are subject to the credit risk of our counterparties, including ceding companies who reinsure business to ALRe, reinsurers who assume liabilities from our subsidiaries and derivative counterparties.. Our insurance subsidiaries may cede insurance and transfer related assets and certain liabilities to third-party insurance companies through reinsurance. Under such reinsurance agreements, our insurance subsidiaries will be liable for losses on insurance risks if such reinsurers fail to perform under their respective reinsurance agreements with our subsidiaries.. In connection with the acquisitions of our two largest U.S. insurance subsidiaries, we entered into reinsurance agreements with Protective and Global Atlantic. As part of our acquisition of AADE, we effected a sale of substantially all of AADE's life insurance business by reinsuring such business to Protective. Similarly, in connection with our acquisition of Aviva USA, we effectuated a sale of substantially all of Aviva USA's life insurance business by reinsuring such business to Global Atlantic. Because these agreements involve reinsurance of entire business segments, each covers a much larger volume of business than a traditional reinsurance agreement. Additionally, although certain of Protective's financial obligations under its reinsurance agreement with us are secured by assets placed in a trust for our benefit and Global Atlantic is obligated to maintain assets in custody accounts for our benefit to support substantially all of its financial obligations under its reinsurance agreements with us, as each of Protective and Global Atlantic are the only counterparties under each respective agreement, we face a heightened risk of default with respect to those reinsurers in particular. In addition, we do not have a security interest in the assets in the custody accounts supporting the Global Atlantic reinsurance agreements. Therefore, in the event of an insolvency of the Global Atlantic insurance company acting as reinsurer, our claims would be subordinated to those of such insurance company's policyholders and the assets in the relevant custody accounts may be available to satisfy the claims of such insurance company's general creditors in addition to us. As with any other reinsurance agreement, we remain liable to our policyholders even if Protective or Global Atlantic fail to perform. Although each agreement provides that Protective and Global Atlantic, respectively, agree to indemnify us for losses sustained in connection with their respective performances of each agreement, such indemnification may not be adequate to compensate us for losses actually incurred in the event that Protective or Global Atlantic are either unable or unwilling to perform according to the agreements' terms. In addition to possible losses that could be incurred if our subsidiaries are forced to recapture these blocks, such subsidiaries may also face a substantial shortfall in capital to support the recaptured business, possibly resulting in material declines to the insurer's RBC ratio and/or creditworthiness and potentially expose the insurer to ratings downgrades, regulatory intervention, increased policyholder withdrawals or other negative effects.. 53. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Conversely, ALRe and certain of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries assume liabilities from other insurance companies. Changes in the ratings, creditworthiness or market perception of such ceding companies or in the administration of policies reinsured to us could cause policyholders of contracts reinsured to us to surrender or lapse their policies in unexpected amounts. In addition, to the extent such ceding companies do not perform under their reinsurance agreements with us, we may not achieve the results we intended and could suffer unexpected losses. In either case, we have exposure to our subsidiaries' reinsurance counterparties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In particular, should the $19 billion reinsurance transaction with Voya close, we will be subject to risks associated with impairments in Voya's financial strength and perceived financial strength, an impairment to either of which may result in the surrender of policies earlier and in quantities greater than expected at the time the transaction was priced. In addition, Venerable, directly or through VIAC, will administer the fixed annuity block being reinsured. To the extent that Venerable fails to perform under our reinsurance agreement and associated arrangements, we may not achieve the return targets expected at the time the transaction was priced and our financial position and results of operations may thereby or otherwise be adversely affected.. Finally, we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by our counterparties on derivative agreements. We seek to further reduce the risk associated with such agreements by entering into such agreements with large, well-established financial institutions. In addition, rules recently adopted by the CFTC and the prudential regulators will require us and our swap dealer counterparties to collect and post initial and variation margin with respect to non-cleared swaps. Any initial margin required to be posted to our swap dealer counterparties under these rules will be segregated with a third-party custodian. However, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the event a counterparty or custodian fails to perform or is subject to a bankruptcy or similar proceeding.. We rely significantly on third parties for investment services and certain other services related to our policies, and we may be held responsible for obligations that arise from the acts or omissions of third parties under their respective agreements with us if they are deemed to have acted on our behalf.. We rely significantly on various third parties to provide investment services to us as well as to sell, distribute and provide administrative services for our subsidiaries' policies. As such, our results may be affected by the performance of those parties. Additionally, our operations are dependent on various service providers and on various technologies, some of which are provided or maintained by certain key outsourcing partners and other parties.. Many of our subsidiaries' products and services are sold through third-party intermediaries. In particular, our insurance businesses are reliant on such intermediaries to describe and explain these products and services to potential customers, and although we take precautions to avoid this result, such intermediaries may be deemed to have acted on our behalf. If that occurs, the intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our subsidiaries' products and services in advertising materials or other external communications, or inappropriate activities by our personnel or an intermediary could result in liability for us and have an adverse effect on our reputation and business prospects, as well as lead to potential regulatory actions or litigation involving or against us. In addition, we rely on TPAs to administer a portion of our annuity contracts, as well as our legacy life insurance business. We currently rely on these TPAs to administer a number of our policies. Some of our reinsurers also use TPAs to administer business reinsured to them by us. To the extent any of these TPAs do not administer such business appropriately, we have and may in the future experience customer complaints, regulatory intervention and other adverse impacts, which could affect our future growth and profitability. If any of these TPAs or their employees are found to have made material misrepresentations to our policyholders, violated applicable insurance, privacy or other laws and regulations or otherwise engaged in misconduct, we could be held liable for their actions, which could adversely affect our reputation and business prospects, as well as lead to potential regulatory actions or litigation against us.. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries have experienced increased service and administration complaints related to the conversion and administration of the block of life insurance business acquired in connection with our acquisition of Aviva USA and reinsured to affiliates of Global Atlantic by the TPA retained by such Global Atlantic affiliates to provide services on such policies, as well as on certain annuity policies that were on Aviva USA's legacy policy administration systems that were also converted to and are being administered by the same TPA. On April 5, 2017, we received notification from the NYSDFS that it planned to undertake a market conduct examination of ALICNY for the period of January 1, 2012 through March 31, 2017 (NYSDFS Market Conduct Examination), and on May 31, 2017, we received notification from the Texas Department of Insurance that it intended to undertake an enforcement proceeding, in each case, relating to the treatment of policyholders subject to our reinsurance agreements with affiliates of Global Atlantic and the conversion of such annuity policies, including the administration of such blocks by such TPA. On November 15, 2017, we received notification from the NYSDFS that its examination of ALICNY had resulted in the identification of a significant number of asserted violations of New York insurance law associated with the life block reinsured to affiliates of Global Atlantic, who have also been overseeing policyholder administration and the TPA servicing the policies in the block, with a significant number of such violations not subject to dispute by the relevant affiliates of Global Atlantic or by us. On January 30, 2018, we received a draft report regarding the NYSDFS Market Conduct Examination from the NYSDFS, which identified in more detail the violations asserted in the November 15, 2017 letter as well as certain other violations. We and Global Atlantic are currently in discussions with the NYSDFS to resolve this matter, but there is no assurance that we will be able to resolve this matter in a manner favorable to us. In addition to the foregoing, we have received inquiries, and expect to continue to receive inquiries, from other regulatory authorities regarding the conversion matter. It is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar formal examinations, inquiries or enforcement proceedings and that any examinations, inquiries and/or enforcement proceedings may result in fines, administrative penalties and payments to policyholders. We are not currently able to estimate the amount of any such fines, penalties or payments arising from these matters with reasonable certainty, but it is possible that such amounts may be material.. 54. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Additionally, past or future misconduct by agents that distribute our subsidiaries' products or employees of our vendors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and to prevent us from taking excessive or inappropriate risks, associates may take such risks regardless of such controls and procedures. In addition, annuity sales to seniors have been the subject of increased scrutiny by FINRA and state insurance regulators, and have been the source of industry litigation in situations where annuity sales have allegedly been unsuitable for the financial needs of seniors.. Our distribution partners are subject to the interim requirements of the fiduciary rule. See Item 1. Business - Regulation - United States - ERISA for further discussion regarding the fiduciary rule. We are assisting our distribution partners with such requirements.. The fiduciary rule's obligations for distributors of products to retirement accounts may result in additional compliance costs to us, regulatory scrutiny and litigation, as well as reduced product sales. Since the fiduciary rule is in the process of being implemented, we are not able to assess the actual impact that such regulations may have on us and our associates. If the fiduciary rule is fully implemented in its current form, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted as we implement the fiduciary rule's numerous requirements.. Foreign currency fluctuations may reduce our net income and our capital levels, adversely affecting our financial condition.. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk through the investments in our investment portfolio that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or are issued by entities which primarily conduct their business outside of the U.S. We may employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results or equity may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business in Bermuda could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 24 non-Bermudians in our Bermuda office (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of permanent residents' certificates, and holders of working residents' certificates). We may hire additional non-Bermudians as our business grows. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of permanent residents' certificates, and holders of working residents' certificates) generally may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit (with certain exceptions). A work permit is generally granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, or holder of a permanent resident's or working resident's certificate who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer has applied for the job. Work permit terms that are available for request range from three months to five years. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our non-Bermudian employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunications, information technology and other operational systems or a failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on those systems, including as a result of human error, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are highly dependent on automated and information technology systems to record and process our internal transactions and transactions involving our customers, as well as to calculate reserves, value our investment portfolio and complete certain other components of our financial statements. We could experience a failure of one of these systems, our employees or agents could fail to monitor and implement enhancements or other modifications to a system in a timely and effective manner or our employees or agents could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new software system or modifications to an existing system. Additionally, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our information technology systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter or delete information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft.. We believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed or stored in such systems, and we periodically evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we have established a business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. Despite the implementation of security and back-up measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptions. We may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses and electrical or telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable where we rely on outside vendors to provide services to us and/or our customers. The failure of any one of these systems for any reason, or errors made by our employees or agents, could in each case cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could harm our reputation, adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 55. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We retain confidential information in our information technology systems and those of our business partners, and we rely on industry standard commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic intrusions, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. While we perform penetration tests and have adopted a number of measures to protect the security of customer and company data, and to our knowledge have not experienced a successful cyber attack that has resulted in any material compromise in the security of our information technology systems, there is no guarantee that such an attack will not occur or be successful in the future.. In addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information. Any compromise of the security of our information technology systems that results in inappropriate disclosure or use of personally identifiable customer information could damage the reputation of our brand in the marketplace, deter purchases of our products, subject us to heightened regulatory scrutiny or significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.. Even in the absence of a compromise in the security of our information technology systems, inappropriate disclosure or use of personally identifiable customer information may occur in the event of a compromise in the security of the information technology systems of our third-party advisors or business partners with whom we share such data. Any such inappropriate disclosure or use could likewise damage the reputation of our brand in the marketplace, deter purchases of our products, subject us to heightened regulatory scrutiny or significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses.. We may be the target or subject of, and may be required to defend against or respond to, litigation (including class action litigation), enforcement investigations or regulatory scrutiny.. We, like other financial services companies, are involved in litigation and arbitration in the ordinary course of business. More generally, we operate in an industry in which various practices are subject to regulatory scrutiny and potential litigation, including class actions and enforcement investigations. Plaintiffs may seek large or indeterminate amounts of damages, including compensatory, liquidated, treble and/or punitive damages. In addition, we sell our products through third parties, including IMOs, whose activities may be difficult to monitor. Civil jury verdicts have been returned against insurers and other financial services companies involving sales, underwriting practices, product design, product disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees, recommending unsuitable products to customers, breaching fiduciary or other duties to customers, refund or claims practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly supervise representatives, relationships with agents or other persons with whom the insurer does business, payment of sales or other contingent commissions and other matters. Such lawsuits can result in substantial judgments that are disproportionate to actual damages, including material amounts of punitive or non-economic compensatory damages. In some states, juries, judges and arbitrators have substantial discretion in awarding punitive, or non-economic, compensatory damages, which creates the potential for unpredictable material adverse judgments or awards in any given lawsuit or arbitration. Arbitration awards are subject to very limited appellate review. In addition, in some class action and other lawsuits, financial services companies have made material settlement payments. Given the large or indeterminate amounts sometimes sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is also possible that in certain cases an ultimate unfavorable resolution of one or more pending litigation matters could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.. Certain of our investments in RMBS securities may experience a decline in value if trustees are permitted to withhold funds to meet expenses and/or claims incurred in connection with litigation against such trustees. In June 2017, Wells Fargo, National Association (Wells Fargo), as trustee of certain pre-crisis residential mortgage-backed securities (Legacy RMBS) transactions, notified certificateholders that it withheld a portion of the funds received during related clean-up calls to meet litigation expenses (both incurred and anticipated) and/or claims in connection with Blackrock, et al. v. Wells Fargo (Blackrock Litigation). The Blackrock Litigation is one of a series of cases various parties have brought against trustees of Legacy RMBS transactions for the alleged failure of such trustees to perform their respective duties and obligations under the related transaction documents.. In July 2017, various funds managed by Pacific Investment Management Company, LLC (collectively, PIMCO) brought a declaratory judgment action in the Supreme Court of New York against Wells Fargo seeking to prevent Wells Fargo from paying any portion of the defense costs of the Blackrock Litigation from the trusts at issue in the litigation, and claiming that Wells Fargo, as trustee, breached certain duties to investors. In September 2017, Wells Fargo filed a motion to dismiss the claims brought by PIMCO and in November 2017, the motion was granted in its entirety. In January 2018, PIMCO filed its notice to appeal that decision.. Following the PIMCO action, Royal Park Investments SA/NV (Royal Park) similarly brought purported class actions in the Southern District of New York seeking damages, and declaratory and injunctive relief against Deutsche Bank National Trust Company (Deutsche Bank) and U.S. Bank National Association (U.S. Bank), as trustees of certain Legacy RMBS transactions. Royal Park asserted that Deutsche Bank and U.S. Bank were not entitled to pay any portion of the defense costs from trusts at issue in Royal Park's underlying litigations against these trustees for alleged breaches of certain duties to investors. Deutsche Bank's motion to dismiss Royal Park's most recent action is fully briefed, but the court has not ruled on a request for oral argument or on the merits of the motion to dismiss. Royal Park's most recent action against U.S. Bank has been consolidated with the underlying litigation, and U.S. Bank has indicated it intends to seek dismissal of Royal Park's complaint or, alternatively, a stay of the complaint until the resolution of the underlying litigation.. We hold a substantial Legacy RMBS portfolio, the ratings, yield and value of which could be adversely affected if any of these or other Legacy RMBS trustees are able to set aside or use trust funds for indemnification and defense costs related to the underlying trustee litigations.. 56. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process and potential phasing out of LIBOR after 2021 may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and may further affect our ability to issue funding agreements bearing a floating rate of interest.. Regulators and law enforcement agencies in the UK and elsewhere are conducting civil and criminal investigations into whether the banks that contribute to the British Bankers' Association (BBA) in connection with the calculation of daily LIBOR may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating or attempting to manipulate LIBOR. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to this alleged manipulation of LIBOR.. Actions by the BBA, regulators or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined or the establishment of alternative reference rates. For example, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be enacted in the UK or elsewhere. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates or other reforms may adversely affect the trading market for LIBOR-based securities, including those held in our investment portfolio and may further adversely affect our ability to issue funding agreements bearing a floating rate of interest. As of December 31, 2017, 28% of our invested assets were floating rate investments, some of which were referenced to LIBOR.. Risks Relating to Our Investment Manager. We rely on our investment management agreements with AAM for the management of our investment portfolio. AAM may terminate these arrangements at any time, and there are limitations on our ability to terminate such arrangements, which may adversely affect our investment results.. We rely on AAM to provide us with investment management services pursuant to various investment management agreements (IMAs). AAM relies in part on its ability to attract and retain key people, and the loss of services of one or more of the members of AAM's senior management could delay or prevent AAM from fully implementing our investment strategy.. IMA Termination Rights. Our bye-laws currently provide that we may not, and will cause our subsidiaries not to, terminate any IMA among us or any of our subsidiaries, on the one hand, and AAM, on the other hand, before October 31, 2018 (or any anniversary thereafter) (each such date, an IMA Termination Election Date) and any termination on an IMA Termination Election Date requires (i) the approval of two-thirds of our Independent Directors (as defined below) and (ii) written notice to AAM of such termination at least 30 days' prior to an IMA Termination Election Date. If our Independent Directors make any such election to terminate and notice of such termination is delivered, the termination will be effective on the second anniversary of the applicable IMA Termination Election Date (IMA Termination Effective Date). Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) our Independent Directors may only elect to terminate an IMA on an IMA Termination Election Date if two-thirds of our Independent Directors determine, in their sole discretion and acting in good faith, that either (i) there has been unsatisfactory long-term performance materially detrimental to us by AAM, or (ii) the fees being charged by AAM are unfair and excessive compared to a comparable asset manager (provided, that in either case such Independent Directors must deliver notice of any such determination to AAM and AAM will have until the applicable IMA Termination Effective Date to address such concerns, and provided, further, that in the case of such a determination that the fees being charged by AAM are unfair and excessive, AAM has the right to lower its fees to match the fees of such comparable asset manager) and (B) upon the determination by two-thirds of our Independent Directors, we or our subsidiaries may also terminate an IMA with AAM as a result of either (i) a material violation of law relating to AAM's investment management business, or (ii) AAM's gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless disregard of AAM's obligations under the relevant agreement, and in either case the delivery of written notice at least 30 days' prior to such termination and such termination will be effective at the end of such 30-day period (the events described in the foregoing clauses (A) and (B) are referred to in more detail in our bye-laws as \"AHL Cause\"). For purposes of these provisions of the bye-laws, an \"Independent Director\" cannot be (x) an officer or employee of ours or any of our subsidiaries or (y) an officer or employee of (1) any member of the Apollo Group described in clauses (i) through (iv) of the definition of \"Apollo Group\" as set forth in our bye-laws or (2) AGM or any of its subsidiaries (excluding any subsidiary that constitutes any portfolio company (or investment) of (A) an investment fund or other investment vehicle whose general partner, managing member or similar governing person is owned, directly or indirectly, by AGM or by one or more of its subsidiaries or (B) a managed account agreement (or similar arrangement) whereby AGM or one or more of its subsidiaries serves as general partner, managing member or in a similar governing position).. Our organizational documents give our Independent Directors complete discretion, while acting in good faith, as to whether to determine if an AHL Cause event has occurred with respect to any IMA with AAM, and therefore our Independent Directors are under no obligation to make, and therefore may exercise their discretion never to make, such a determination.. The boards of directors of AHL's subsidiaries may terminate an IMA with AAM relating to the applicable subsidiary if such subsidiary's board of directors determines that such termination is required in the exercise of its fiduciary duties. If our subsidiaries do elect to terminate any such agreement, other than as provided above, we may be in breach of our bye-laws, which could subject us to regulatory scrutiny, expose us to shareholder lawsuits and could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 57. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investment Management Fees. Further, except in limited circumstances, we currently pay AAM 0.40% per year on assets managed up to $65.8 billion and 0.30% per year on assets managed in excess of such amount. We pay additional fees to Apollo and its affiliates for providing sub-advisory services and acting as manager of investment funds in which we invest. Any such fees may be higher than what other investment managers may be willing to charge us currently for investment services. Because of the services and the unique acquisition opportunities provided by AAM and Apollo that we are able to access that many other companies cannot access, we do not currently expect our board of directors or our Independent Directors would elect to terminate any IMA. These limitations on our ability to terminate the IMAs with AAM could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Termination by AAM. Conversely, we may be adversely affected if AAM elects to terminate an IMA at a time when such agreement remains advantageous to us. We depend upon AAM to implement our investment strategy. However, AAM does not face the restrictions described above with regards to its ability to terminate any of its agreements with us and may terminate such agreements at any time. If AAM chooses to terminate such agreements, there is no assurance that we could find a suitable replacement or that certain of the opportunities made available to us as a result of our relationship with AAM and Apollo would be offered by a suitable replacement, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by our failure to retain a satisfactory investment manager.. Interruption or other operational failures in telecommunications, information technology and other operational systems at AAM or a failure to maintain the security, integrity, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on AAM's systems, including as a result of human error, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are highly dependent on AAM, as our investment manager, to maintain information technology and other operational systems to record and process its transactions with respect to our investment portfolio, which includes providing information that enables us to value our investment portfolio and may affect our financial statements. AAM could experience a failure of one of these systems, its employees or agents could fail to monitor and implement enhancements or other modifications to a system in a timely and effective manner or its employees or agents could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new software system or modifications to an existing system. Additionally, anyone who is able to circumvent AAM's security measures and penetrate its information technology systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter or delete information in the systems, including proprietary information relating to our investment portfolio. The maintenance and implementation of these systems at AAM is not within our control. Should AAM's systems fail to accurately record information pertaining to our investment portfolio, we may inadvertently include inaccurate information in our financial statements and experience a lapse in our internal control over financial reporting. The failure of any one of these systems at AAM for any reason, or errors made by its employees or agents, could cause significant interruptions to its operations, which could adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The historical performance of AAM should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio, our future results or any returns expected on our common shares.. Our investment portfolio's returns have benefited historically from investment opportunities and general market conditions that currently may not exist and may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance AAM will be able to avail itself of profitable investment opportunities in the future. Furthermore, the historical returns of our investments managed by AAM are not directly linked to returns on our common shares, which are affected by various factors, one of which is the value of our investment portfolio. In addition, AAM is compensated based solely on our assets it manages, rather than by investment return targets. Accordingly, there can be no guarantee AAM will be able to achieve any particular return for our investment portfolio in the future.. Increased regulation or scrutiny of alternative investment advisers and certain trading methods may affect AAM's ability to manage our investment portfolio or affect our business reputation.. The regulatory environment for investment managers is evolving, and changes in the regulation of investment managers may adversely affect the ability of AAM to effect transactions that use leverage or to pursue their strategies in managing our investment portfolio. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. Due to our reliance on AAM to manage our investment portfolio, any regulatory action or enforcement against AAM could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, the regulation of derivatives transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. Any future regulatory change could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 58. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Insurance and Other Regulatory Matters. Our industry is highly regulated and we are subject to significant legal restrictions, regulations and regulatory oversight in connection with the operations of our business, including the discretion of various governmental entities in applying such restrictions and regulations. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. U.S. Laws and Regulations. Our U.S. subsidiaries' insurance, annuity, retirement and investment products are subject to a complex and extensive array of laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, state banking authorities, the SEC, FINRA, the DOL, the IRS and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. See Item 1. Business - Regulation - United States for a summary of certain of the U.S. state and federal laws and regulations applicable to our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties imposed by a particular governmental or self-regulatory authority, unanticipated costs associated with remedying such failure or other claims, harm to our reputation, interruption of our operations or an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.. We may be subject to regulation by the DOL when providing a variety of products and services to employee benefit plans governed by ERISA. Severe penalties are imposed for breach of duties under ERISA. In addition, we will be subject to regulation by the DOL with respect to recommendations involving an IRA.. In addition to the foregoing risks, the financial services industry is the focus of increased regulatory scrutiny as various state and federal governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations conduct inquiries and investigations into the products and practices of the financial services industries. The 2008 economic crisis has changed the way the financial services industry is regulated. Governmental authorities in the United States and worldwide have become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. Among the proposals that are presently being considered is the possible introduction of global regulatory standards for the amount of capital that insurance groups must maintain across the group. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in the insurance and financial services industry in the future.. Bermuda Laws and Regulations. Because we are a Bermuda company, we are subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. As a holding company, AHL is not subject to the laws of Bermuda governing insurance companies; however, ALRe is registered in Bermuda under the Bermuda Insurance Act as a Class E insurer and is subject to the Bermuda Insurance Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. See Item 1. Business - Regulation - Bermuda for a summary of certain of the Bermuda laws and regulations applicable to our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to monetary penalties imposed by the BMA, unanticipated costs associated with remedying such failure or other claims, harm to our reputation, interruption of our operations or an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations.. Our failure to obtain or maintain approval of insurance regulators and other regulatory authorities as required for the operations of our insurance subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prospects.. U.S. state regulators retain the authority to license insurers in their states and an insurer generally may not operate in a state in which it is not licensed. We have U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries that are currently licensed to do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Our ability to retain these licenses depends on our and our subsidiaries' ability to meet requirements established by the NAIC and adopted by each state such as RBC standards and surplus requirements.. Some of the factors influencing these licensing requirements, particularly factors such as changes in equity market levels, the value of certain derivative instruments that do not receive hedge accounting, the value and credit ratings of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, interest rate changes and changes to the RBC formulas and the interpretation of the NAIC's instructions with respect to RBC calculation methodologies, are out of our control. If these factors adversely affect us and we are unable to meet the requirements above, our subsidiaries could lose their licenses to do business in certain states, be subject to additional regulatory oversight, have their licenses suspended or be subject to seizure of assets. A loss or suspension of any of our subsidiaries' licenses may negatively impact our reputation in the insurance market and result in our subsidiaries' inability to write new business, distribute funds or pursue our investment/overall business strategy.. 59. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. ALRe, as a Bermuda domiciled insurer, is also required to maintain licenses. ALRe is licensed as a reinsurer only in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations and policies of the BMA require that ALRe, among other things, maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus, satisfy solvency standards, restrict dividends and distributions, obtain prior approval or provide notification to the BMA, as the case may be, of ownership, transfer and disposition of Shareholder Controller shares, maintain a head office, and have certain officers and a director resident in Bermuda, appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda and provide for the performance of certain periodic examinations of itself and its financial conditions. A failure to meet these conditions may result in the suspension or revocation of ALRe's license to do business as a reinsurance company in Bermuda, which would mean that ALRe would not be able to enter into any new reinsurance contracts until the suspension ended or it became licensed in another jurisdiction. For any or a number of reasons, the BMA could revoke or suspend ALRe's license. Any such suspension or revocation of ALRe's license would negatively impact its and our reputation in the reinsurance marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The process of obtaining licenses is time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to become licensed in jurisdictions other than those in which our subsidiaries are currently licensed. The modification of the conduct of our business resulting from our and our subsidiaries becoming licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect our business. In addition, our inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and adversely affect our business by limiting our ability to conduct business as well as subjecting us to penalties and fines.. Changes in the laws and regulations governing the insurance industry or otherwise applicable to our business, including the DOL fiduciary rule, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Certain of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are summarized in Item 1. Business - Regulation. Changes in the laws and regulations relevant to our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Certain of the risks associated with changes in these laws and regulations are discussed in greater detail below.. The 2008 economic crisis has resulted in numerous changes to regulation and oversight of the financial industry, the full impact of which has yet to be realized. The Dodd-Frank Act makes sweeping changes to the regulation of financial services entities, products and markets. Historically, the federal government has not regulated the insurance business, however, the Dodd-Frank Act generally provides for enhanced federal supervision of financial institutions, including insurance companies in certain circumstances, and financial activities that represent a systemic risk to financial stability or the economy. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are or may become applicable to us, our competitors or those entities with which we do business, including, but not limited to: the establishment of a comprehensive federal regulatory regime with respect to derivatives; the establishment of consolidated federal regulation and resolution authority over SIFIs; the establishment of the Federal Insurance Office; changes to the regulation of broker-dealers and investment advisors; changes to the regulation of reinsurance; changes to regulations affecting the rights of shareholders; the imposition of additional regulation over credit rating agencies; the imposition of concentration limits on financial institutions that restrict the amount of credit that may be extended to a single person or entity; and mandatory on-facility execution and clearing of certain derivative contracts.. Numerous provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the adoption or implementation of rules or regulations. The process of adopting such implementing rules and/or regulations have in some instances been delayed beyond the time frames imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. Further, changes in general political, economic or market conditions, including as a result of the most recent U.S. presidential and congressional elections, could affect the scope, timing and final implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Until the various final regulations are promulgated, the full impact of the regulations on the Company will remain unclear. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act mandated multiple studies, which could result in additional legislation or regulation applicable to the insurance industry, us, our competitors or those entities with which we do business. Legislative or regulatory requirements imposed by or promulgated in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act may impact us in many ways, including, but not limited to: placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competition or other financial services entities; changing the competitive landscape of the financial services sector or the insurance industry; making it more expensive for us to conduct our business; requiring the reallocation of significant company resources to government affairs; increasing our legal and compliance related activities and the costs associated therewith as the Dodd-Frank Act may permit the preemption of certain state laws when inconsistent with international agreements, such as the Covered Agreement; and otherwise having a material adverse effect on the overall business climate as well as our financial condition and results of operations.. Heightened standards of conduct as a result of the DOL fiduciary rule, any rules proposed by SEC or other similar proposed rules or regulations could also increase the compliance and regulatory burdens on our representatives, and could lead to increased litigation and regulatory risks, changes to our business model, a decrease in the number of our securities-licensed representatives and a reduction in the products we offer to our clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we expect the worldwide demographic trend of population aging will cause policymakers to continue to focus on the framework of U.S. and non-U.S. retirement systems, which may drive additional changes regarding the manner in which individuals plan for and fund their retirement, the extent of government involvement in retirement savings and funding, the regulation of retirement products and services and the oversight of industry participants. Any incremental requirements, costs and risks imposed on us in connection with such current or future legislative or regulatory changes, may constrain our ability to market our products and services to potential customers, and could negatively impact our profitability and make it more difficult for us to pursue our growth strategy.. 60. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Although our businesses are subject to regulation in each state in which they conduct business, in many instances the state insurance laws and regulations emanate from the NAIC. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs or increased statutory capital and reserve requirements. Changes in these laws and regulations or interpretations thereof are often made for the benefit of the consumer and at the expense of the insurer and could have a material adverse effect on our domestic insurance subsidiaries' businesses, operations and financial conditions. We and they are also subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's interpretation of a legal or accounting issue may not result in compliance with another regulator's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. There is an additional risk that any particular regulator's interpretation of a legal or accounting issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes to the overall legal or market environment, even absent any change of interpretation by a particular regulator, may cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, which could necessitate changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve profitability.. Risks Relating to Taxation. The Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax may significantly increase our tax liability.. The Tax Act introduced a new tax called the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT). The BEAT operates as a minimum tax and is generally calculated as a percentage (5% in 2018, 10% in 2019-2025, and 12.5% in 2026 and thereafter) of the \"modified taxable income\" of an \"applicable taxpayer.\" Modified taxable income is calculated by adding back to a taxpayer's regular taxable income the amount of certain \"base erosion tax benefits\" with respect to certain payments made to foreign affiliates of the taxpayer, as well as the \"base erosion percentage\" of any net operating loss deductions. The BEAT applies for a taxable year only to the extent it exceeds a taxpayer's regular corporate income tax liability for such year (determined without regard to certain tax credits).. Certain of our reinsurance agreements require our U.S. subsidiaries to pay or accrue substantial amounts to ALRe that would be characterized as \"base erosion payments\" with respect to which there are \"base erosion tax benefits.\" Accordingly, the BEAT could significantly increase the tax liability of our U.S. subsidiaries and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Moreover, ALRe pays or accrues substantial amounts to our U.S. subsidiaries under our reinsurance agreements for increases in policy reserves and to reimburse our U.S. subsidiaries for payments of benefits to our policyholders. It is not clear whether such amounts should be netted against the amounts our U.S. subsidiaries pay or accrue to ALRe under our reinsurance agreements for purposes of calculating their \"base erosion payments\" and \"base erosion tax benefits.\" No assurance can be given that any such amounts will be netted. If the amounts cannot be netted and we do not take our planned or other actions to mitigate or eliminate the BEAT, the tax liability of our U.S. subsidiaries will increase and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. The application of the BEAT to our reinsurance arrangements could be affected by further legislative action (including possibly a \"technical corrections\" bill), administrative guidance or court decisions. Any such legislative action, administrative guidance or court decisions are not likely to be available at the time that we are required to determine the amount of federal income tax incurred by our U.S. subsidiaries for the first quarter of 2018, and they could have retroactive effect. Tax authorities may later disagree with our BEAT calculations, or the interpretations on which those calculations are based, and assess additional taxes, interest and penalties, and the uncertainty regarding the correct interpretation of the BEAT may make such disagreements more likely. We will determine the appropriateness of our tax provision in accordance with GAAP. However, there can be no assurance that this provision will accurately reflect the amount of federal income tax that our U.S. subsidiaries ultimately pay, as that amount could differ materially from our estimate.. Our efforts to mitigate the cost of the BEAT may be unnecessary, ineffective or counterproductive.. In light of the possibility of material additional tax cost to our U.S. subsidiaries and the lack of clear guidance regarding the appropriate method by which to compute the BEAT, we are undertaking certain actions and exploring various alternatives intended to mitigate the potential effect of the BEAT on our results of operations in the event it is determined that none of the amounts paid or accrued by ALRe to our U.S. subsidiaries are taken into account in the calculation of \"base erosion payments\" or \"base erosion tax benefit.\" Such actions may have adverse consequences to our business, such as subjecting profit from our affiliate reinsurance to a layer of withholding tax of up to 30%, which would not be payable under our current structure. There can be no assurances that our efforts to eliminate or mitigate the BEAT will be successful, and our consideration of actions may be expensive and time consuming. Further, there can be no assurances that we will be able to complete these actions as they are conditioned upon factors beyond our control, such as regulatory approval. In addition, it is likely that we will be required to take action before the uncertainty regarding the BEAT is resolved, and accordingly any action we take may, in hindsight, prove to have been unnecessary, ineffective or counterproductive.. 61. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. AHL or ALRe may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation.. AHL and ALRe are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and currently intend to operate in a manner that will not cause either to be treated as being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. or subject to current U.S. federal income taxation on their net income. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to when a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, as the law is unclear and the determination is highly factual and must be made annually, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully contend that AHL or ALRe is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. In addition, although AHL and ALRe currently intend to operate in a manner that would not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the U.S., the recent enactment of the BEAT, the reduction of the federal income tax rate applicable to corporations included in the Tax Act, and other factors may cause AHL or ALRe to conduct their business differently. If AHL or ALRe were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., it could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net basis on its income that is effectively connected with such U.S. trade or business (including branch profits tax on the portion of its earnings and profits that is attributable to such income). Any such U.S. federal income taxation could result in substantial tax liabilities and consequently could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of future operations.. U.S. persons who own our Class A common shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on our undistributed earnings and profits.. AHL's bye-laws generally limit the voting power of our Class A common shares (and certain other of our voting securities) such that no person owns (or is treated as owning) more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares (with certain exceptions). AHL's bye-laws also currently reduce the voting power of Class B common shares held by certain holders if (A) one or more U.S. persons that own (or are treated as owning) more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares own (or are treated as owning) individually or in the aggregate more than 24.9% of the voting power or the value of our common shares or (B) a U.S. person that is classified as an individual, an estate or a trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes owns (or is treated as owning) more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares. Additionally, AHL's bye-laws require the board of AHL to refer certain decisions with respect to our non-U.S. subsidiaries to our shareholders, and to vote our shares in those subsidiaries accordingly. These provisions were intended to reduce the likelihood that AHL or ALRe will be treated as a controlled foreign corporation (CFC), other than for purposes of taking into account related person insurance income (RPII). However, the relevant attribution rules are complex and there is no definitive legal authority on whether the voting provisions included in AHL's organizational documents are effective for purposes of the CFC provisions.. Moreover, the Tax Act eliminated the prohibition on \"downward attribution\" from non-U.S. persons to U.S. persons under Section 958(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of determining constructive stock ownership under the CFC rules. As a result, our U.S. subsidiaries are deemed to own all of the ALRe stock held by AHL for CFC purposes. Accordingly, ALRe is currently treated as a CFC, without regard to whether the provisions of our bye-laws described above are effective for purposes of the CFC provisions. The legislative history under the Tax Act indicates that this change was not intended to cause ALRe to be treated as a CFC with respect to a 10% U.S. Shareholder (as defined below) that is not related to our U.S. subsidiaries. However, it is not clear whether the IRS or a court would interpret the change made by the Tax Act in a manner consistent with such indicated intent.. For any taxable year in which AHL or ALRe is treated as a CFC, each U.S. person treated as a \"10% U.S. Shareholder\" with respect to AHL or ALRe that held our common shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities as of the last day in such taxable year that AHL or ALRe was a CFC would generally be required to include in gross income as ordinary income its pro rata share of AHL's or ALRe's insurance and reinsurance income and certain other investment income, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed to such U.S. person (with certain adjustments). For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, a \"10% U.S. Shareholder\" of a non-U.S. corporation includes any U.S. person that owns (or is treated as owning) stock of the non-U.S. corporation possessing 10% or more of the total voting power or total value of such non-U.S. corporation's stock. Any U.S. person that owns (or is treated as owning) 10% or more of the value of AHL should consult with their tax advisor regarding their investment in AHL.. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a CFC if 10% U.S. Shareholders, in the aggregate, own (or are treated as owning) stock of the non-U.S. corporation possessing more than 50% of the voting power or value of such corporation's stock. However, this threshold is lowered to more than 25% for purposes of taking into account the insurance income of a non-U.S. corporation. Special rules apply for purposes of taking into account any RPII of a non-U.S. corporation, as described below.. In addition, if a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. corporation and the U.S. person was a 10% U.S. Shareholder at any time when the corporation was a CFC during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the U.S. person's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period or periods that the U.S. person owned the shares while the corporation was a CFC (with certain adjustments). Also, a U.S. person may be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the number of shares owned.. Because of the limitations in AHL's bye-laws referred to above, among other factors, we believe it is unlikely that any U.S. person that is treated as owning less than 10% of the total value of AHL would be a 10% U.S. Shareholder of AHL or ALRe. However, because the relevant attribution rules are complex and there is no definitive legal authority on whether the voting provisions included in AHL's organizational documents are effective for purposes of the CFC provisions, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Further, our ability to obtain information that would permit us to enforce the limitation described above may be limited. We will take reasonable steps to obtain such information, but there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate or that we will be successful in this regard. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully enforce the limitation described above.. 62. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. U.S. persons who own our Class A common shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on a disproportionate share of our undistributed earnings and profits attributable to RPII.. If ALRe is treated as recognizing RPII in a taxable year and ALRe is treated as a CFC for such taxable year, each U.S. person that owns our Class A common shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities as of the last day in such taxable year must generally include in gross income its pro rata share of the RPII, determined as if the RPII were distributed proportionately only to all such U.S. persons, regardless of whether that income is distributed (with certain adjustments). For this purpose, ALRe generally will be treated as a CFC if U.S. persons in the aggregate are treated as owning 25% or more of the total voting power or value of ALRe's stock at any time during the taxable year. We believe that ALRe will be treated as a CFC for this purpose based on the current and expected ownership of our shares.. RPII generally is any income of a non-U.S. corporation attributable to insuring or reinsuring risks of a U.S. person that owns (or is treated as owning) stock of such non-U.S. corporation, or risks of a person that is \"related\" to such a U.S. person. For this purpose, (1) a person is \"related\" to another person if such person \"controls,\" or is \"controlled\" by, such other person, or if both are \"controlled\" by the same persons, and (2) \"control\" of a corporation means ownership (or deemed ownership) of stock possessing more than 50% of the total voting power or value of such corporation's stock and \"control\" of a partnership, trust or estate for U.S. federal income tax purposes means ownership (or deemed ownership) of more than 50% by value of the beneficial interests in such partnership, trust or estate.. Athene and Apollo have considerable overlap in ownership. If it is determined that the same persons \"control\" both us and Apollo through owning (or being treated as owning) more than 50% of the vote or value of Athene and Apollo, substantially all of ALRe's income might constitute RPII. This would trigger the adverse RPII consequences described above to all U.S. persons that hold our Class A common shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities and would have a material adverse effect on the value of their investment in our Class A common shares.. Existing voting restrictions set forth in AHL's bye-laws are generally intended to prevent a person who owns (or is treated as owning) shares in Apollo from owning (or being treated as owning) any of the voting power of our Class A common shares, thus preventing persons who own (or are treated as owning) both AHL and Apollo from owning (or being treated as owning) more than 50% of the voting power of our stock. However, these restrictions do not prevent members of the Apollo Group from retaining the right to vote on newly acquired Class A common shares, should they choose to do so, nor do they prevent persons who own (or are treated as owning) both AHL and Apollo from owning (or being treated as owning) more than 50% of the value of our stock. AHL's bye-laws also generally provide that no person (nor certain direct or indirect beneficial owners or related persons to such person) who owns our common shares, other than a member of the Apollo Group, may acquire any shares of Apollo or otherwise make any investment that would cause such person, or any other person that is a U.S. person, to own (or be treated as owning) more than 50% of the vote or value of AHL's stock. Any holder of our common shares that violates this provision may be required, at the board's discretion, to sell its common shares or take any other reasonable action that the board deems necessary.. Because of the restrictions described above, among other factors, we believe it is likely that one or more exceptions under the RPII rules will apply such that U.S. persons will not be required to include any RPII in their gross income with respect to ALRe. However, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Further, our ability to obtain information that would permit us to enforce the restrictions described above may be limited. We will take reasonable steps to obtain such information, but there can be no assurance that such steps will be adequate or that we will be successful in this regard. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully enforce these restrictions.. U.S. persons who dispose of our Class A common shares may be required to treat any gain as ordinary income for U.S. federal income tax purposes and comply with other specified reporting requirements.. If a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. corporation that is an insurance company that had RPII and the 25% threshold described above is met at any time when the U.S. person owned any shares in the corporation during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the U.S. person's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. person owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to a disposition of our Class A common shares because AHL is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to a disposition of our Class A common shares.. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our Class A common shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. A U.S. tax-exempt organization that directly or indirectly owns our Class A common shares generally will recognize unrelated business taxable income and be subject to additional U.S. tax filing obligations to the extent such tax-exempt organization is required to take into account any of our insurance income or RPII pursuant to the CFC and RPII rules described above. U.S. tax-exempt organizations should consult their own tax advisors regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income as a result of the ownership of our Class A common shares.. 63. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. U.S. persons who own our Class A common shares may be subject to adverse tax consequences if AHL is considered a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. If AHL is considered a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who directly or, in certain cases, indirectly owns our Class A common shares could be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply, an interest charge on certain taxes that are deemed deferred as a result of AHL's non-U.S. status and additional U.S. tax filing obligations, regardless of the number of shares owned.. We currently do not expect that AHL will be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the current taxable year or the foreseeable future because AHL, through its insurance subsidiaries, intends to qualify for the \"active insurance\" exception to PFIC treatment. The \"active insurance\" exception was recently amended by the Tax Act, and we believe that AHL will qualify for the exception as amended. However, there is significant uncertainty regarding how the Tax Act will be interpreted and guidance may not be forthcoming. Therefore, we cannot assure you that AHL will not be treated as a PFIC. If AHL is treated as a PFIC, the adverse tax consequences described above generally would also apply with respect to a U.S. person's indirect ownership interest in any PFICs in which AHL directly or, in certain cases, indirectly, owns an interest.. Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect us or our shareholders.. The tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been significantly altered by the enactment of the Tax Act. See Item 1. Business - Regulation - United States - Tax Reform. In particular, the Tax Act:. • Imposes the BEAT (as described above);. • Amends the calculation of tax reserves for U.S. life insurance companies and requires affected companies to include the resulting change in income over an 8-year period beginning in 2018;. • Amends the treatment of \"specified policy acquisition expenses\" incurred by U.S. life insurance companies under Section 848 of the Internal Revenue Code;. • Restricts the \"active insurance\" exception to PFIC treatment to \"qualifying insurance corporations;\". • Eliminates the prohibition on \"downward attribution\" from non-U.S. persons to U.S. persons under Section 958(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of determining constructive stock ownership under the CFC rules (as described above); and. • Amends the definition of \"U.S. Shareholder\" to include U.S. persons that own (or are treated as owning) 10% or more of the value of a foreign corporation.. There is significant uncertainty regarding how these and other provisions of the Tax Act will be interpreted, and guidance may not be forthcoming. In addition, it is possible that a \"technical corrections\" bill may be passed during 2018 that could alter or clarify the Tax Act, likely with retroactive effect. Any changes to, clarifications of, or guidance under the Tax Act could add significant expense and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Finally, the tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries may be the subject of further tax legislation. No prediction can be made as to whether any particular proposed legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be, or whether it would have any effect on us. As such, we cannot assure you that future legislative, administrative or judicial developments will not result in an increase in the amount of U.S. tax payable by us or by an investor in our Class A common shares or reduce the attractiveness of our products. If any such developments occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected and such developments could have a material and adverse effect on your investment in our common shares.. Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect demand for our products.. Many of the products that we sell and reinsure benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current U.S. federal and state income tax regimes. For example, we sell and reinsure annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. The changes in U.S. federal tax law made by the Tax Act, or future changes in U.S. federal or state tax law, could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of such products, which could affect the sale of our products or increase the expected lapse rate with respect to products that have already been sold.. There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates.. If a reinsurance agreement is entered into among related parties, the IRS is permitted to reallocate or recharacterize income, deductions or certain other items, and to make any other adjustment, to reflect the proper amount, source or character of the taxable income of each of the parties. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and the price of our Class A common shares could be adversely affected.. 64. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We may not be able to use our deferred tax asset attributes or admit them into statutory capital as a result of the Tax Act.. Under the Tax Act, net operating losses generated in 2018 and thereafter may be carried forward indefinitely but may not be carried back to offset taxable income in prior tax periods. Historically, a portion of our admitted deferred tax asset has reflected our ability to carry net operating losses back to prior tax periods. In the future, the amount of deferred tax asset we are able to admit may be reduced due to the elimination of the carry back period. Because the ability to admit deferred tax assets into statutory capital is dependent in part on our ability to carry losses back to prior tax periods, we may not be able to admit into statutory capital a portion of deferred tax assets that are generated in future tax periods.. We may have fewer investable assets and earn less investment income as a result of the Tax Act.. Certain of the changes made by the Tax Act are expected to increase the amount of our current tax expense. Although the increase in current tax expense from these changes may be largely offset by an increase in the amount of our deferred tax assets, we may have fewer investable assets and thus may earn less investment income.. We may become subject to U.S. withholding tax under certain U.S. tax provisions commonly known as FATCA.. Certain U.S. tax provisions commonly known as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) impose a 30% withholding tax on certain payments of U.S. source income and the proceeds from the disposition after December 31, 2018, of property of a type that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends, in each case, to certain \"foreign financial institutions\" and \"non-financial foreign entities.\" The withholding tax also applies to certain \"foreign passthru payments\" made by foreign financial institutions after December 31, 2018. The U.S. government has signed an intergovernmental agreement to facilitate the implementation of FATCA with the government of Bermuda (Bermuda IGA). AHL and its foreign subsidiaries intend to comply with the obligations imposed on them under FATCA and the Bermuda IGA, as applicable, to avoid being subject to withholding under FATCA on payments made to them or penalties. However, no assurance can be provided in this regard. We may become subject to withholding tax or penalties if we are unable to comply with FATCA.. If AHL is treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business in any taxable year, all or a portion of the dividends on our Class A common shares may be treated as U.S. source income and may be subject to withholding and information reporting under FATCA unless a shareholder (and any intermediaries through which the shareholder holds its shares) establishes an exemption from such withholding and information reporting. In addition, any gross proceeds from the sale or other disposition of our Class A common shares after December 31, 2018, might also be subject to withholding and information reporting under FATCA in such circumstances, absent an exemption. As discussed above, we currently intend to limit our U.S. activities so that AHL is not considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, although no assurances can be provided in this regard.. We are subject to the risk that Bermuda tax laws may change and that we may become subject to new Bermuda taxes following the expiration of a current exemption after 2035.. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Bermuda Minister of Finance's assurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.. The impact of the OECD's recommendations on base erosion and profit shifting is uncertain and could impose adverse tax consequences on us.. In 2015, the OECD published final recommendations on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). These BEPS recommendations propose the development of rules directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Beginning with 2017, some countries in which we do business, including Bermuda and the U.S., require certain multinational enterprises, including ours, to report detailed information regarding allocation of revenue, profit, and other information, on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by foreign tax authorities.. The BEPS recommendations also include revisions to the definition of a \"permanent establishment\" and the rules for attributing profit to a permanent establishment. Other recommended actions relate to the goal of ensuring that transfer pricing outcomes are in line with value creation, noting that the current rules may facilitate the transfer of risks or capital away from countries where the economic activity takes place. We expect many countries to change their tax laws in response to this project, and several countries (including the U.S.) have already changed or proposed changes to their tax laws. Changes to tax laws could increase their complexity and the burden and costs of compliance. Additionally, such changes could also result in significant modifications to the existing transfer pricing rules and could potentially have an impact on our taxable profits in various jurisdictions.. 65. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Investment in Our Class A Common Shares. There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common shares by our current shareholders as certain restrictions on sale expire, and these sales could cause the price of our common shares to fall.. Our directors, executive officers and shareholders holding 100% of our common shares outstanding prior to our initial public offering (IPO) agreed that they would not sell any shares prior to the expiration of certain time periods after the date upon which the SEC declared the registration statement for our IPO effective (effective date). The remaining lock-up expiration period applicable to existing holders ends on March 3, 2018, provided that certain of our shareholders and directors representing approximately 8.9% of our common shares, as of December 31, 2017, have agreed not to sell any shares until December 8, 2018. Approximately 48,977,760 and 16,134,546 of our common shares will be eligible for future sale on March 3, 2018 and December 8, 2018, respectively. These restrictions are subject to waiver by our board of directors, including in the event that we permit holders to sell their shares in follow-on registered offerings. As these lock-up periods end, the market price of our common shares could decline if the holders of those shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Additionally, existing holders of our common shares have registration rights under the Third Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement (Registration Rights Agreement), subject to certain conditions, which require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other shareholders in the future.. The interest of the Apollo Group, which controls and is expected to continue to control 45% of the total voting power of AHL and holds a number of the seats on our board of directors, may conflict with those of other shareholders and could make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions.. The Apollo Group controls and is expected to continue to control 45% of the total voting power of AHL. As a result, the Apollo Group could exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, appointment of members of our management, election of directors, approval of the termination of our IMAs and determination of our corporate policies, which may reduce the market price of our common shares. Even if the Apollo Group reduces its beneficial ownership below its current holdings or we raise additional equity from investors other than members of the Apollo Group, because of its control over 45% of our aggregate voting power, for so long as any member of the Apollo Group owns at least one Class B common share, such member will still be able to assert significant influence over our board of directors and certain corporate actions.. The interests of our existing shareholders, particularly members of the Apollo Group, may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Actions that members of the Apollo Group take as shareholders may not be favorable to our other shareholders. For example, the concentration of voting power held by the Apollo Group, the significant representation on our board of directors by the Apollo Group, or the limitations on our ability to terminate any IMA with AAM could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which another shareholder may otherwise view favorably. Members of the Apollo Group may, in their role as shareholders, vote in favor of a merger, takeover or other business combination transaction which our other shareholders might not consider in their best interests. In addition, as long as a business combination transaction were deemed to be in the best interests of the Company, our charter and bye-laws would not prevent us from entering into a business combination transaction that provided for the payment of differential consideration to holders of the Class B common shares, which are held by the Apollo Group or its affiliates, and the Class A common shares.. Our conflicts committee and our disinterested directors with respect to a transaction analyze certain of these conflicts to protect against potential harm resulting from conflicts of interest in connection with transactions that we have entered into or will enter into with Apollo or its affiliates. Specifically, our bye-laws require that the conflicts committee (in accordance with its charter and procedures) approve certain material transactions by and between us and Apollo or its affiliates, including entering into material agreements or the imposition of any new fee or increase in the rate at which fees are charged to us, subject to certain exceptions. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. In addition, our conflicts committee may exclusively rely on information provided by AAM, including with respect to fees charged by AAM or Apollo or its affiliates, and with respect to the historical performance or fees of unrelated service providers used for comparison purposes, and may not independently verify the information so provided. However, these conflicts provisions will not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with Apollo or its affiliates.. Additionally, our investment manager, AAM, is an indirect subsidiary of Apollo and charges us management fees based on our assets. Under our IMAs with AAM, substantially all of our invested assets are managed by AAM. Our investment policies permit AAM to invest in securities of issuers affiliated with Apollo, including funds managed by Apollo, and to retain on our behalf and at our cost sub-advisors, including Apollo. AAM may make such investments or retain such sub-advisors at its discretion, subject only to the approval of our conflicts committee in certain cases and/or certain regulatory approvals. Accordingly, AAM may have a conflict of interest in managing our investments, including by retaining its affiliate, Apollo, to act as its sub-advisor, which would increase amounts payable by us for investment advisory services or could cause us to receive less return on our investments than if our investment portfolio was managed by another party. In addition, asset management fees are paid based on the amount of our AUM regardless of the results of our operations. Therefore, Apollo could be incentivized to exercise its influence to cause us to increase our AUM, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. 66. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Certain of our investments are managed by other Apollo affiliates retained as sub-advisors by AAM to manage such investments. Currently, substantially all of the assets subject to sub-advisory arrangements are managed by Apollo affiliates. In addition, we have made investments in collective investment vehicles managed by Apollo affiliates, including seed investments in new investment vehicles or investment strategies offered by Apollo which have limited track records, as well as junior and subordinated tranches of structured investment vehicles which may assist Apollo in meeting certain regulatory requirements applicable to Apollo as the sponsor of such vehicles. Such Apollo affiliates charge us a sub-advisory fee, or charge such vehicles management fees, that independently, or when taken together with the fees charged by AAM, may not be the lowest fee available for similar sub-advisory or investment management services offered by unrelated managers. In addition, it is possible that such unrelated managers may perform better than the Apollo affiliates retained by AAM as sub-advisors or which manage such collective investment funds. Apollo is not obligated to devote any specific amount of time to the affairs of our company, or to the funds in which we are invested and we have limited rights to terminate any IMA or sub-advisory arrangement. Affiliates of Apollo manage and expect to continue to manage other client accounts, some of which have objectives similar to ours, including collective investment vehicles managed by Apollo and in which Apollo may have an equity interest. We will compete with other Apollo clients not only in terms of time spent on management of our portfolio, but also for allocation of assets that do not have significant supply. In addition, there may be different investment teams for AAM and Apollo investing in the same strategies for different clients, including us. As a result, we may compete with other Apollo clients for the same investment opportunities, potentially disadvantaging us. Apollo may also manage accounts whose advisory fee schedules, investment objectives and policies differ from ours, which may cause Apollo to allocate securities in a manner that may have an adverse effect on our ability to source appropriate assets and meet our strategic objectives. In addition, where AAM has retained an Apollo affiliate as our sub-advisor, it is possible that due to the fees charged by such sub-advisor in addition to the AAM fees that we pay, we may either experience a reduced return on an investment or may forego purchasing an investment that we would have purchased if such investment opportunity were sourced directly by AAM.. From time to time, AAM or Apollo may acquire investments on our behalf which are senior or junior to other instruments of the same issuer that are held by, or acquired for, another AAM or Apollo client (for example, we may acquire junior debt while another Apollo client may acquire senior debt). In the event such an issuer enters bankruptcy or becomes otherwise insolvent, the client holding securities which are senior in preference may have the right to aggressively pursue the issuer's assets to fully satisfy the issuer's indebtedness to the client, and the client holding the investment which is junior in the capital structure may not have access to sufficient assets of the issuer to completely satisfy its claim against the issuer and may suffer a loss. AAM and Apollo have adopted procedures that are designed to enable AAM and Apollo to address such conflicts and to ensure that clients are treated fairly and equitably in these situations. However, given AAM's or Apollo's fiduciary obligations to the other client, AAM and Apollo may be unable to manage our investment in the same manner as would have been possible without the conflict of interest. In such event, we may receive less return on such investment than if another AAM or Apollo client was not in a different part of the capital structure of the issuer.. Apollo and its affiliates have diverse and expansive private equity, credit and real estate investment platforms, investing in numerous companies across many industries. If Apollo acquires or forms a company with a business strategy competing with ours, additional conflicts may arise between us and Apollo or between us and such company in executing our plans, including with respect to the allocation of investments or the ability to execute on corporate opportunities. Our bye-laws provide that Apollo and its members and affiliates (including certain of our directors) generally have no duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do.. Apollo and its affiliates regularly obtain material non-public information regarding various potential acquisition or trading targets. When Apollo and its affiliates obtain material non-public information regarding a potential acquisition or trading target, AAM and Apollo become restricted from trading such acquisition or trading target's outstanding securities. Some of such securities may be potential investment opportunities for us, or may be owned by us and be potential disposition opportunities. The inability of AAM or Apollo to purchase or sell such investments on our behalf as a result of these restrictions may result in us acquiring investments that may otherwise underperform the restricted investments that AAM or Apollo would have acquired, or incurring losses on investments that AAM or Apollo would have sold, on our behalf, had such restrictions not been in place.. Certain of AAM's executives and employees have incentive compensation tied to our financial performance. This compensation arrangement may incentivize such executives and employees to invest in riskier assets in an attempt to achieve higher returns. James R. Belardi, our Chief Executive Officer, also serves as Chief Executive Officer of AAM, owns a profits interest in the equity of AAM and receives compensation from AAM for services he provides to AAM. Accordingly, his involvement as a member of our board of directors and management team and as an officer and director of AAM may lead to a conflict of interest. Furthermore, certain members of our board of directors also serve on the board of directors of AAM or are employees of Apollo or its affiliates, which could also lead to potential conflicts of interest. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that cause a holder of Class A common shares to lose the right to vote the shares if the holder owns an equity interest in Apollo, AP Alternative Assets, L.P. (AAA) or certain other entities.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that impose restrictions on certain Class A common shares in order to reduce the likelihood that U.S. persons that directly or indirectly own our common shares will experience adverse tax consequences attributable to RPII. These provisions could cause a holder to lose the right to vote its Class A common shares if the holder or one of its affiliates owns (or is treated as owning) any equity interests (or instruments treated as equity interests) in Apollo or AAA, if the holder or one of its affiliates owns (or is treated as owning) any of our Class B common shares or if the holder or one of its affiliates is a member of the Apollo Group. These restrictions do not affect the transferability of Class A common shares and do not apply unless the holder or one of its affiliates meets one of these conditions.. 67. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investors may experience dilution in the future.. We have issued restricted Class M common shares and stock options to certain of our employees and to employees of AAM which enable them, upon meeting certain vesting criteria, to acquire Class A common shares at prices below the NYSE trading price of our Class A common shares. To the extent the outstanding restricted Class M common shares and stock options are ultimately exercised and/or to the extent we issue additional equity in the future, there may be dilution to investors.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests, including provisions that prevent a holder of Class A common shares from having a significant stake in Athene.. Our bye-laws include certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change of control that holders of our Class A common shares might consider in their best interests. For example, our bye-laws prohibit holders of our Class A common shares and certain other classes of our common shares (other than those owned by the Apollo Group) from having more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares. Subject to certain exceptions determined by our board on the basis set forth in our bye-laws, the votes attributable to a holder of Class A common shares above 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares are redistributed to other holders of Class A common shares pro rata based on the then current voting power of each holder. Such adjustments are likely to result in a shareholder having voting rights in excess of its pro rata share of the voting power of our Class A common shares. Therefore, a shareholder's voting rights may increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding common shares, thereby possibly resulting in the shareholder becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. These requirements could discourage any potential investment in our Class A common shares. In addition, our board is classified into three classes of directors, with directors of each class serving staggered three-year terms. Any change in the number of directors is required by our bye-laws to be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class or from the removal of a director will hold such directorship for a term that coincides with the remaining term of that class. Moreover, our bye-laws require specific advance notice procedures and other protocols for holders of common shares to make shareholder proposals and nominate directors. Among other requirements, a shareholder must meet the minimum requirements for eligible shareholders to submit shareholder proposals under Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, and submit specific information and make specific undertakings in relation to the shareholder proposal or director nomination.. Any or all of these provisions could prevent holders of our Class A common shares from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Class A common shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of any of these provisions could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common shares if they were viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. AHL is a holding company with limited operations of its own. As a consequence, AHL's ability to pay dividends on its common shares and to make timely payments on its debt obligations will depend on the ability of its subsidiaries to make distributions or other payments to it, which may be restricted by law.. AHL is a holding company with limited business operations of its own. AHL's primary subsidiaries are insurance and reinsurance companies that own substantially all of its assets and conduct substantially all of its operations. Accordingly, AHL's payment of dividends and ability to make timely payments on its debt obligations is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by its subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash or other assets available to it, by dividend or otherwise. Dividends or distributions that may be paid by AHL's insurance subsidiaries to it are limited or restricted by applicable insurance or other laws that are based in part on the prior year's statutory income and surplus, or other sources. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity - Holding Company Liquidity.. AHL's subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable AHL to meet its obligations and pay dividends. In particular, as a condition to the New York State Department of Financial Services' (NYSDFS) approval of our acquisition of ALICNY in connection with the broader Aviva USA acquisition, we agreed not to cause ALICNY to declare, distribute or pay any dividend for five years from the date of acquisition of control of ALICNY without the prior written consent of the NYSDFS, which period expires on October 2, 2018. Similarly, as a condition to the approval of the IID of our acquisition of Aviva USA's Iowa-domiciled subsidiaries, we agreed not to cause AAIA to pay any dividend or other distribution to shareholders for five years, which period expires on August 15, 2018, without the prior approval of the IID. Further, any dividends paid to AHL by its U.S. subsidiaries would be subject to a 30% withholding tax under the Internal Revenue Code, which creates a significant disincentive for AHL's subsidiaries to pay such dividends and could have the effect of significantly reducing dividends or other amounts payable to AHL by its U.S. subsidiaries. These limitations on AHL's U.S. subsidiaries' abilities to pay dividends to it as a shareholder may negatively impact AHL's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and legal and contractual restrictions may also limit AHL's ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. In addition to the specific restrictions described above, AHL's subsidiaries, as members of its insurance holding company system, are subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends to AHL, as further described in Item 1. Business - Regulation - United States - Insurance Holding Company Regulation.. 68. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. AHL may in the future incur indebtedness in order to pay dividends to shareholders. If AHL did determine to incur additional indebtedness in order to pay dividends, such dividends would be subject to the terms of AHL's existing indebtedness as well as any credit agreement that AHL may enter into in the future. AHL does not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on its common shares. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of AHL's board of directors and will depend on, among other things, AHL's results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, excess capital position, alternative uses of capital, contractual restrictions and other factors that AHL's board of directors may deem relevant. Therefore, any return on investment in AHL's common stock may be solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of AHL's common stock on the open market, which may not occur.. Holders of our shares may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the United States.. AHL is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and is domiciled in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether:. • a holder of our shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of U.S. courts against us or against persons who reside in Bermuda based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws; or. • a holder of our shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers who reside outside the United States based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.. Further, we have been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. Additionally, we have been advised that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors or officers in a suit brought in the Supreme Court of Bermuda provided that the facts alleged constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under the U.S. federal securities laws, would not be allowed in Bermuda courts to the extent that they are contrary to public policy.. Our choice of forum provisions in our bye-laws may limit your ability to bring suits against us or our directors and officers.. Our bye-laws currently provide that if any dispute arises concerning the Companies Act or out of or in connection with our bye-laws, including any question regarding the existence and scope of any bye-law and/or whether there has been a breach of the Companies Act or our bye-laws by an officer or director (whether or not such a claim is brought in the name of a shareholder or in the name of the Company), any such dispute shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Bermuda. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our bye-laws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Companies Act, which applies to AHL, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act and our bye-laws which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders.. Interested Directors. Bermuda law provides that we cannot void any transaction we enter into in which a director has an interest, nor can such director be liable to us for any profit realized pursuant to such transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if:. • the material facts as to such interested director's relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the board of directors and the board of directors had in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors;. • such material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or. • the transaction was fair to the corporation as of the time it was authorized, approved or ratified.. Under Delaware law, the interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit.. 69. Table of Contents. Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Shareholders' Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where an act is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, a court would consider acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or acts requiring the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys' fees incurred in connection with such action.. Indemnification of Directors. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers which provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors acting in their capacity as such for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which such person may be guilty in relation to Athene other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. We are also required to indemnify our directors and officers in any proceeding in which they are successful. The indemnification agreements are limited to those payments that are lawful under Bermuda law.. Furthermore, pursuant to our bye-laws, our shareholders have agreed to waive any claim or right of action such shareholder may have, whether individually or by or in right of AHL, against any director or officer of AHL on account of any action taken by such director or officer, or the failure of such director or officer to take any action in the performance of his or her duties with or for AHL or any subsidiary of AHL; provided that such waiver does not extend to any matter in respect of any fraud or dishonesty which may attach to such director or officer.. 70. Table of Contents"
