[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following Risk Factors and all other information in this Report.  These Risk Factors are not the only ones facing us.  Our operations could also be impaired by additional risks and uncertainties.  If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Risks Related to Our Business Generally. Deterioration in the airfreight market, global economic conditions or financial markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to access capital markets.. Airfreight demand has historically been highly dependent on global economic conditions.  If demand for our services, Yields or lease rates deteriorate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets deteriorate.  Our business is capital intensive and growth depends on the availability of capital for new aircraft, among other things.  If capital availability deteriorates, we may be unable to raise the capital necessary to finance business growth or other initiatives or to repay our debt when it matures.  Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions.. We could be adversely affected if any of our existing aircraft are underutilized or we fail to redeploy or deploy aircraft with customers at favorable rates.  We could also be adversely affected from the loss of one or more of our aircraft for an extended period of time.. Our operating revenues depend on our ability to effectively deploy the aircraft in our fleet and maintain high utilization of our aircraft at favorable rates.  If we have underutilized aircraft, we would seek to redeploy those aircraft in our other lines of business or sell them.  If we are unable to successfully redeploy our existing aircraft at favorable rates or sell them on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if one or more of our aircraft are out of service for an extended period of time, our operating revenues would decrease and we may have difficulty fulfilling our obligations under one or more of our existing contracts.  The loss of revenue resulting from any such business interruption, and the cost and potentially long lead time and difficulties in sourcing a replacement aircraft, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our financial condition may suffer if we experience unanticipated costs as a result of ongoing lawsuits and claims related to alleged pricing practices or other legal and regulatory matters.. In the Netherlands, Stichting Cartel Compensation, successor in interest to claims of various shippers, has filed suit in the district court in Amsterdam against British Airways Plc (\"British Airways\"), KLM, Martinair, Air France, Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines seeking recovery for damages purportedly arising from alleged improper matters related to the use of fuel surcharges and other rate components for air cargo services prior to and during 2006.  In response, British Airways, KLM, Martinair, Air France and Lufthansa filed third-party indemnification lawsuits against Polar Air Cargo LLC (\"Old Polar\"), formerly named Polar Air Cargo, Inc., a consolidated subsidiary, and Polar seeking indemnification in the event the defendants are found to be liable in the main proceedings.. If Old Polar, Polar or the Company were to incur an unfavorable outcome in the litigation described above or in similar litigation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition to the litigation described above, we are subject to a number of Brazilian customs claims, as well as other claims, lawsuits and pending actions which we consider to be routine and incidental to our business (see. 14. Note 14 to our Financial Statements).  If we were to receive an adverse ruling or decision on any such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Global trade flows are typically seasonal, and our business, including our ACMI customers' business, experiences seasonal variations.. Global trade flows are typically seasonal in nature, with peak activity occurring during the retail holiday season, which generally begins in September/October and lasts through most of December.  Our ACMI and CMI contracts generally have contractual utilization minimums that typically allow our customers to cancel an agreed-upon percentage of the guaranteed hours of aircraft utilization over the course of a year.  Our ACMI and CMI customers often exercise those cancellation options early in the first quarter of the year, when the demand for air cargo capacity is historically low following the seasonal holiday peak in the fourth quarter of the previous year.  While our revenues typically fluctuate seasonally as described above, a significant proportion of the costs associated with our business, such as debt service, aircraft rent, depreciation and facilities costs, are fixed and cannot easily be reduced to match the seasonal drop in demand.  As a result, our net operating results are typically lower in the first quarter and increase as the year progresses.. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other rules and regulations that affect our business.  A violation of these rules and regulations could lead to termination or suspension of our government contracts and could prevent us from entering into contracts with government agencies in the future.. To do business with government agencies, including the AMC, we must comply with, and are affected by, many rules and regulations, including those related to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These rules and regulations, among other things:. •  require, in some cases, procurement from small businesses;. •  require disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations;. •  give rise to U.S. government audit rights;. •  impose accounting rules that dictate how we define certain accounts, define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts;. •  establish specific health, safety and doing-business standards; and. •  restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data.. These rules and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, add costs to our business.  A violation of these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts.  In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable rules and regulations could result in our suspension or debarment as a government contractor.. Fuel availability and price volatility could adversely affect our business and operations.. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and can be volatile.  Our exposure to fluctuations in fuel price is limited to the commercial portion of our Charter business only, but this risk is partially mitigated by using indexed fuel price adjustments for certain commercial charter contracts.  Our ACMI and CMI contracts require our customers to pay for aircraft fuel.  Regardless, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find less costly alternatives for cargo delivery, such as land and sea carriers.  Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In the past, we have not experienced significant difficulties with respect to fuel availability.  Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of aircraft fuel, a number of factors, such as geopolitical uncertainties in oil-producing nations and shortages of and disruptions to refining capacity, make. 15. accurate predictions unreliable.  Any inability to obtain aircraft fuel at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are party to collective bargaining agreements covering pilots of Atlas and Southern Air and a collective bargaining agreement covering our Atlas and Polar flight dispatchers.  This could result in higher labor costs and/or result in a work interruption or stoppage.. Pilots of Atlas and Southern Air and flight dispatchers of Atlas and Polar are represented by the IBT.  We have a five-year CBA with our Atlas pilots, which became amendable in September 2016 and a four-year CBA with the Southern Air pilots, which became amendable in November 2016.  Initial negotiations commenced in January of 2016, nine months prior to the amendable date.  Negotiations have continued as governed by a July 6, 2017 framework agreement, which was established to accommodate a joint CBA, and the parties have continued to meet regularly since then.  We also have a five-year CBA with our Atlas and Polar dispatchers, which was extended in April 2017 for an additional four years, making the CBA amendable in November 2021.  We are subject to risks of increased labor costs associated with having a partially unionized workforce, as well as a greater risk of work interruption or stoppage, which could negatively impact our ability to conduct business.  We cannot provide assurance that disputes, including disputes with certified collective bargaining representatives of our employees, will not arise in the future or will result in an agreement on terms satisfactory to us.  In addition, the costs associated with resolving such disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Insurance coverage may become more expensive and difficult to obtain and may not be adequate to insure all of our risks.  In addition, if our Dry Lease customers have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their indemnification obligations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general, and the insured carrier in particular.  Adverse events involving aircraft could result in increased insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage.. We participate in an insurance pooling arrangement with DHL and its partners.  This allows us to obtain aviation hull and liability, war-risk hull and cargo loss, crew, third-party liability and hull deductible coverage at reduced rates from the commercial insurance providers.  If we are no longer included in this arrangement for any reason or if pool members have coverage incidents, we may incur higher insurance costs.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage on terms favorable to us, that the premiums for such coverage will not increase substantially or that we will not bear substantial losses and lost revenue from accidents or other adverse events.  Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage or a significant increase in our insurance expense could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, while we carry insurance against the risks inherent to our operations, which we believe are consistent with the insurance arrangements of other participants in our industry, we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks, including coverage for weapons of mass destruction.. Lessees are required under our Dry Leases to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable.  Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and all-risk hull and war-risk hull insurance on the aircraft at agreed-upon levels.  If our lessees' insurance is not sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us or if our lessees fail to fulfill their indemnification obligations, we would be required to pay any amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. We rely on third parties to provide certain essential services.  If these service providers do not deliver the high level of service and support required in our business at commercially reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third parties to provide certain essential services on our behalf, including maintenance, ground handling and flight attendants.  In certain locations, there may be very few sources, or sometimes only a single source, of supply for these services.  If we are unable to effectively manage these third parties, they may provide inadequate levels of support or charge commercially unreasonable amounts for their services, which could harm our customer relationships and ability to remain competitive.  Any material problems with the quality, timeliness and cost of our contracted services, or an unexpected termination of those services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of our aircraft are periodically deployed in potentially dangerous situations, which may result in business interruption or harm to our passengers, employees or contractors and/or damage to our aircraft/cargo.. Some of our aircraft are deployed in potentially dangerous locations and carry hazardous cargo incidental to the services we provide in support of our customers' activities.  Some areas through which our flight routes pass are subject to geopolitical instability, which increases the risk of death or injury to our passengers, employees or contractors, business interruption or a loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and/or its cargo.  While we maintain insurance to cover injury to our passengers, employees and contractors as well as the loss/damage of aircraft/cargo, except for limited situations, we do not have insurance against the loss arising from business interruption.  It may be difficult to replace lost or substantially damaged aircraft due to the high capital requirements and long delivery lead times for new aircraft or to locate appropriate in-service aircraft available for lease or sale.  Any injury to passengers, employees or contractors or loss/damage of aircraft/cargo could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our information technology systems.. We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business.  The information technology systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures, computer viruses, security breaches and cyber attacks.  We have taken numerous steps to implement business resiliency and cybersecurity to help reduce the risk of some of these potential disruptions.  There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems.  Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business.  Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. income tax purposes may be limited. In addition, we operate in multiple jurisdictions and may become subject to a wide range of income and other taxes.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.2 billion of federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") for U.S. income tax purposes, net of unrecognized tax benefits and valuation allowance, which will expire through 2037, if not utilized.  Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Section 382\") imposes an annual limitation on the amount of a corporation's U.S. federal taxable income that can be offset by NOLs if it experiences an \"ownership change\", as defined by Section 382.  We experienced ownership changes, as defined by Section 382, in 2004 and 2009.  In addition, the acquisition of Southern Air in 2016 constituted an ownership change for that entity.  Accordingly, the use of our NOLs generated prior to these ownership changes is subject to an annual limitation.  If certain changes in our ownership occur prospectively, there could be an additional annual limitation on the amount of utilizable NOLs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and may become subject to a wide range of income and other taxes.  If our operations become subject to significant income and other taxes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Risks Related to Our ACMI Business. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for our ACMI business and the loss of one or more of such customers could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ACMI business depends on a limited number of customers.  We typically enter into long-term ACMI and CMI contracts with our customers.  The terms of our existing contracts are generally scheduled to expire on a staggered basis.  There is a risk that any one of our significant ACMI or CMI customers may not renew their contracts with us on favorable terms or at all, perhaps due to reasons beyond our control.  For example, certain of our airline ACMI customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us because they decide to exit the dedicated cargo business or as they take delivery of new aircraft in their own fleet.  Select customers have the opportunity to terminate their long-term agreements in advance of the expiration date, following notice to allow for remarketing of the aircraft.. Entering into ACMI and CMI contracts with new customers sometimes requires a long sales cycle, and as a result, if our contracts are not renewed, and there is a resulting delay in entering into new contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our agreements with several ACMI and CMI customers require us to meet certain performance targets, including certain departure/arrival reliability standards.  Failure to meet these performance targets could adversely affect our financial results.. Our ability to derive the expected economic benefits from our transactions with certain ACMI and CMI customers depends substantially on our ability to successfully meet strict performance standards and deadlines for aircraft and ground operations.  If we do not meet these requirements, we may not be able to achieve the projected revenues and profitability from these contracts, and we could be exposed to certain remedies, including termination of the agreements with Amazon and the BSA with DHL in the most extreme of circumstances, as described below.. Risks Related to the Agreements with Amazon. We may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with Amazon.. Realization of the anticipated benefits from the agreements with Amazon is subject to a number of challenges and uncertainties, such as the timing of aircraft deliveries and unforeseen costs.  If we fail to realize the expected benefits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our agreements with Amazon confer certain termination rights which, if exercised or triggered, may result in our inability to realize the full benefits of the agreements.. The agreements give Amazon the option to terminate in certain circumstances and upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including a change of control or our failure to meet certain performance requirements.  In particular, Amazon will have the right to terminate without cause the agreement providing for CMI operations upon providing us at least 180 days' prior written notice of termination.. Upon termination, Amazon will generally, subject to certain exceptions, retain the warrants that have vested prior to the time of termination and, depending on the circumstances giving rise to the termination, may have the right to accelerated vesting of the remaining warrants upon a change of control of our company.  Upon termination, Amazon or we may also have the right to receive a termination fee from the other party depending on the circumstances giving rise to the right of termination.. If Amazon exercises any of these termination rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Our future earnings and earnings per share, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles, could be adversely impacted by the warrants granted to Amazon.. The warrants granted to Amazon increase the number of diluted shares reported, which has an effect on our fully diluted earnings per share.  Further, the warrants are presented as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets and are subject to fair value measurement adjustments during the periods that they are outstanding.  Accordingly, future fluctuations in the fair value of the warrants could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If Amazon exercises its right to acquire shares of our common stock pursuant to the warrants, it will dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If Amazon exercises its right to acquire shares of our common stock pursuant to the warrants, it will dilute the ownership interests of our then-existing stockholders and reduce our earnings per share.  In addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants by Amazon could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. If Amazon exercises its right to acquire shares of our common stock pursuant to the warrants, Amazon may become a significant stockholder and may be entitled to appoint a director to our board of directors.. The warrants issued by us to Amazon grant Amazon the right to purchase up to 30%, in the aggregate, of our common stock on a post-issuance basis.  If the warrants granted to Amazon are exercised, Amazon may become a significant stockholder of our company.  We have entered into a stockholders agreement with Amazon, pursuant to which Amazon's ability to vote in its discretion will generally be capped at 14.9% with the remainder to be voted in accordance with our board of directors' recommendation. In addition, under the stockholders agreement, Amazon will be entitled to appoint one director to our board of directors when Amazon owns 10% or more of our common stock.  Until such time, Amazon is entitled to designate a non-voting observer to our board of directors.. Risk Related to the BSA with DHL. Our agreements with DHL confer certain termination rights to them which, if exercised or triggered, may result in our inability to realize the full benefits of the BSA with DHL.. The BSA gives DHL the option to terminate the agreements for convenience by giving notice to us before the twelfth or fifteenth anniversary of the agreement's commencement date, which was October 27, 2008.  Further, DHL has a right to terminate the BSA for cause following a specified management resolution process if we default on our performance or we are unable to perform for reasons beyond our control.  If DHL exercises any of these termination rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Charter Business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the AMC, and a substantial portion of these revenues have been generated pursuant to expansion flying, as opposed to fixed contract arrangements with the AMC.  Revenues from the AMC are volatile and may decline from current levels.. As a percentage of our total operating revenue, revenue derived from the AMC was approximately 23.0% in 2017, 23.7% in 2016 and 23.0% in 2015.  Historically, the revenues derived from expansion (or ad-hoc) flights for the AMC significantly exceeded the value of the fixed flight component of our AMC contract.. Revenues from the AMC are typically derived from one-year contracts. Our AMC contract generally runs from October 1 through September 30 of the following year.  Changes in national and international political priorities can significantly affect the volume of business from the AMC.  Any decrease in U.S. military activity could reduce revenue from the AMC.  In addition, our share of the total business from the AMC depends on several factors, including the total fleet size we commit to the CRAF program and the total number of aircraft deployed by our teaming arrangement partners and competitors in the program.. 19. The AMC also holds all carriers to certain on-time performance requirements as a percentage of flights flown and, as a result of AMC demand volatility, it has become more difficult to comply with those requirements.  To the extent that we fail to meet those performance requirements or if we fail to pass biannual AMC audits, revenues from our business with the AMC could decline through a suspension or termination of our AMC contract.  Our revenues could also decline due to a reduction in the revenue rate we are paid by the AMC, a greater reliance by the AMC on its own fleet or a reduction in our allocation of AMC flying.  Any reduction in our AMC flying could also negatively impact our Charter revenue from commercial customers for trips related to one-way AMC missions.  We expect revenues and profitability from our business with the AMC to continue to remain volatile as the U.S. military continues to move troops and cargo to and from areas of conflict around the world.  If we are unable to effectively deploy any resultant capacity during periods of reduced flying, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business with the AMC is sensitive to teaming arrangements which affect our relative share of AMC flying and the associated revenue.  If one of our team members reduces its commitments or withdraws from the program, or if other carriers on other teams commit additional aircraft, our share of AMC flying may decline.  In addition, any changes made to the commissions that we pay or receive for AMC flying or changes to the contracting mechanism could impact the revenues or profitability of this business.. Each year, the AMC allocates its air capacity requirements to different teams of participating airlines based on a mobilization value point system that is determined by the amount and types of aircraft that each team of airlines pledges to the program.  We participate in the program through a teaming arrangement with other airlines, led by FedEx.  Our team is one of two major teams participating in the program during our current contract year.  Several factors could adversely affect the amount of AMC flying that is allocated to us, including:. •  changes in the contracting mechanism;. •  the formation of new competing teaming arrangements;. •  the withdrawal of any of our team's current partners, especially FedEx;. •  a reduction of the number of aircraft pledged by us or other members of our team; or. •  increased participation of other carriers on other teams.. Any changes that would result in a reduction in our share of, or profitability from, AMC flying could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risk Related to Our Dry Leasing Business. Any default by our Dry Lease customers, including (but not limited to) failure to make timely payments, failure to maintain insurance or failure to properly maintain our aircraft, could adversely affect our financial results. Our Dry Leasing business depends on the ability of our customers to satisfy their obligations under our leases, which may be affected by factors outside our control, including but not limited to: supply and demand of aircraft; competition; economic conditions; the price and availability of aircraft fuel; government regulations; the availability and cost of financing; failure to maintain insurance; and their overall financial condition and cash flow.  Any default by our customers can result in reduced cash flow, termination of the lease and repossession of the related aircraft, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Dry Leasing customers are primarily responsible for maintaining our aircraft.  Although we require many of our customers to pay us supplemental maintenance revenue, failure of a customer to perform required maintenance during the lease term could result in higher maintenance costs, a decrease in the value of our aircraft, the inability to re-lease aircraft at favorable rates, if at all, or impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 20. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. The market for air cargo services is competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose current customers or fail to attract new customers.  We could also be adversely affected if a large number of long-haul freighter aircraft or freighter aircraft of different equipment types are introduced into the market.. Each of the markets in which we participate is competitive and fragmented.  We offer a broad range of aviation services and our competitors vary by geographic market and type of service and include other international and domestic contract carriers, regional and national ground handling and logistics companies, internal cargo units of major airlines and third-party cargo providers.  Competition in the air cargo and transportation market is influenced by several key factors, including quality, price and availability of assets and services.  Regulatory requirements to operate in the U.S. domestic air cargo market have been reduced, facilitating the entry into domestic markets by foreign air cargo companies.  If we were to lose any major customers and/or fail to attract customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, an increase in the number of aircraft in the freight market could cause Yields and rates to fall and/or could negatively affect our customer base.  If either circumstance were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations and failure to comply with these regulations in the U.S. and abroad, or the adoption of any new laws, policies or regulations or changes to such regulations, may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our operations and our customers' operations are subject to complex aviation and transportation laws and regulations, including Title 49 of the U.S. Code, under which the DOT and the FAA exercise regulatory authority over air carriers.  In addition, our business activities and our customers' business activities fall within the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities, including the U.S. Department of Defense, the TSA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. EPA.  In addition, other jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory regimes to which we are subjected.  These laws and regulations may require us to maintain and comply with the terms of a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses, noise abatement standards, maintenance and other requirements and our failure to do so could result in substantial fines or other sanctions.  These U.S. and foreign aviation regulatory agencies have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us for failure to comply with provisions of law or applicable regulations and may impose civil or criminal penalties for violations of applicable rules and regulations.  Such fines or sanctions, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our mode of conducting business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, U.S. and foreign governmental authorities may adopt, amend or interpret accounting standards, tax laws, regulations or treaties that could require us to take additional and potentially costly compliance steps or result in our inability to operate some of our aircraft in certain countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. International aviation is increasingly subject to requirements imposed or proposed by foreign governments.  This is especially true in the areas of transportation security, aircraft noise and emissions control, and greenhouse gas emissions.  These may be duplicative of, or incompatible with U.S. government requirements, resulting in increased compliance efforts and expense.. Foreign governments also place temporal and other restrictions on the ability of their own airlines to use aircraft operated by other airlines.  For example, the European Aviation Safety Agency (\"EASA\") requires that the aircraft capacity secured from and operated by non-EU airlines meet internationally set standards and additional EASA requirements.  These and other similar regulatory developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Initiatives to address global climate change may adversely affect our business and increase our costs.. To address climate change, governments continue to pursue various means to reduce aviation-related greenhouse gas emissions.  Compliance with these or other measures that are ultimately adopted could result in. 21. substantial costs for us.  For instance, in October 2013, the ICAO reached a nonbinding agreement to develop global market-based measures to assist in achieving carbon-neutral growth.  In October 2016, the ICAO approved the CORSIA, which is designed to offset any annual increases in total carbon emissions from international civil aviation above a baseline level determined by the average of 2019 and 2020 emissions.  Although various details regarding the implementation of CORSIA still need to be finalized, a pilot phase will run from 2021 to 2023.  Starting in 2019, the airlines of participating countries will begin monitoring and reporting fuel burn during international flights.  As a result, for each year starting in 2021, covered airlines may need to purchase allowances to offset their assigned share of emissions overages.. Additionally, the EU continues to pursue a parallel track to address climate change through the EU ETS.  Following the end of every year, to the extent the ETS applies, each airline must tender the number of allowances corresponding to carbon emissions generated by its covered flight activity during the year.  If the airline's flight activity during the year has produced carbon emissions exceeding the number of carbon emissions allowances that it has been awarded, the airline must acquire additional allowances from other airlines in the open market.  In recognition of ICAO's recent adoption of CORSIA, the ETS suspension with respect to flights to and from non-European countries continues through December 31, 2023.  However, the ETS remains applicable to intra-European flights.. In the U.S., various constituencies have continued to advocate for controls on greenhouse gas emissions.  On August 15, 2016, the EPA issued a final rule finding that greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft cause or contribute to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare.  It is possible that these or other developments could lead to the future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft in the U.S.. It is possible that these or similar climate change measures will be imposed in a manner adversely affecting airlines.  The costs of complying with potential new environmental laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The airline industry is subject to numerous security regulations and rules that increase costs.  Imposition of more stringent regulations and rules than those that currently exist could materially increase our costs.. The TSA has increased security requirements in response to increased levels of terrorist activity, and has adopted comprehensive new regulations governing air cargo transportation, including all-cargo services, in such areas as cargo screening and security clearances for individuals with access to cargo.  Additional measures, including a requirement to screen cargo, have been proposed, which, if adopted, may have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo and would increase our costs and those of our customers.  The cost of compliance with increasingly stringent regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR LEASE AND DEBT OBLIGATIONS. Our substantial lease and debt obligations, including aircraft leases and other obligations, could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our aircraft purchases and conversions, operations or other capital requirements, all of which could limit our financial resources and ability to compete, and may make us vulnerable to adverse economic events.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt obligations of approximately $2.4 billion and total aircraft operating leases and other lease obligations of $0.8 billion.  These obligations have increased and are expected to increase further as we enter into financing arrangements for 767-300 aircraft purchases and passenger-to-freighter conversions, GEnx engine upgrades and other fleet expansion and capital requirements.  We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing arrangements or on terms attractive to us.  Our outstanding financial obligations could have negative consequences, including:. o  making it more difficult to satisfy our debt and lease obligations;. 22. o  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations for interest, principal and lease payments and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital and other general corporate requirements;. o  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. o  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry.. Our ability to service our debt and meet our lease and other obligations as they come due is dependent on our future financial and operating performance.  This performance is subject to various factors, including factors beyond our control, such as changes in global and regional economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in interest or currency exchange rates, the price and availability of aircraft fuel and other costs, including labor and insurance.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service, lease and other obligations as they become due and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected under these circumstances.. Certain of our debt obligations contain a number of restrictive covenants.  In addition, many of our debt and lease obligations have cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions.. Restrictive covenants in certain of our debt and lease obligations, under certain circumstances, could impact our ability to:. •  borrow under certain financing arrangements;. •  consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell substantially all our assets;. •  expand significantly into lines of businesses beyond existing business activities or those which are cargo-related and/or aviation-related and similar businesses; and/or. •  modify the terms of debt or lease financing arrangements.. In certain circumstances, a covenant default under one of our debt instruments could cause us to be in default of other obligations as well.  Any unremedied defaults could lead to an acceleration of the amounts owed and potentially could cause us to lose possession or control of certain aircraft, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our convertible notes or to repurchase the convertible notes upon either a fundamental change or a make-whole fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes.. We issued convertible senior notes in May 2017 and June 2015 (the \"Convertible Notes\"), which contain conditional conversion features that allow the holders of the Convertible Notes the option to convert if certain trading conditions are met or upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.  In the event a conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.  In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as current on the balance sheet instead of as noncurrent, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The holders of the Convertible Notes also may require us to repurchase their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes) at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.  However, we may not have enough available cash to fund these obligations or be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes surrendered or. 23. Convertible Notes being converted. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the applicable indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Notes as required by the applicable indenture would constitute a default under such indenture, which could result in acceleration of the principal amount of the notes and additional funding obligations by us.. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the applicable indenture), including specified corporate transactions, occurs prior to the maturity date, under certain circumstances, it would increase the conversion rate.  The increase in the conversion rate would be determined based on the date on which the specified corporate transaction becomes effective and the price paid (or deemed to be paid) per share of our common stock in such transaction, but in no event would increase to greater than 16.3713 shares of our common stock for our convertible notes issued in 2017 and 17.8922 shares of common stock for our convertible notes issued in 2015 per $1,000 of principal, subject to adjustment in the same manner as the conversion rates.  The increase in the conversion rate for Convertible Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may result in us having to pay out additional cash in respect of the Convertible Notes upon conversion, or result in additional dilution to our shareholders if the conversion is settled, at our election, in shares of our common stock.. The Convertible Note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the Convertible Notes offerings, we entered into Convertible Note hedge transactions with option counterparties. The Convertible Note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties.  However, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike prices of the warrants.  Accordingly, when the Convertible Note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions are taken together, the extent to which the Convertible Note hedge transactions reduce the potential dilution to our common stock (or the cash payments in excess of the principal amount of the notes) upon conversion of the notes is effectively capped by the warrant transactions at the strike price of the warrants.. The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various hedging transactions, including (without limitation) derivatives, with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. U.S. citizenship requirements may limit common stock voting rights.. Under U.S. federal law and DOT requirements, we must be owned and actually controlled by \"citizens of the United States,\" a statutorily defined term requiring, among other things, that not more than 25% of our issued and outstanding voting stock be owned and controlled, directly or indirectly, by non-U.S. citizens.  The DOT periodically conducts airline citizenship reviews and, if it finds that this requirement is not met, may require adjustment of the voting rights of the airline's issued shares.. As one means to effect compliance, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that the failure of non-U.S. citizens to register their shares on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the \"Foreign Stock Record,\" results in a suspension of their voting rights.  Our by-laws further limit the number of shares of our capital stock that may be registered on the Foreign Stock Record to 25% of our issued and outstanding shares.  Registration on the Foreign Stock Record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration.  As a result, if a non-U.S. citizen acquires shares of our common stock and does not or is not able to register those shares on our Foreign Stock Record, they may lose their ability to vote those shares.. 24. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law, and our issuance of warrants to Amazon, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of AAWW and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire our company, even if such acquisition may be believed to be favorable to the interests of our stockholders.  These provisions may also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the vesting of warrants issued by us to Amazon will generally, subject to certain exceptions, be accelerated upon a change of control of our company, which may discourage attempts to acquire our company.. Our common stock share price is subject to fluctuations in value.. The trading price of our common shares is subject to material fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in our operating results, conditions of the airfreight market and global economic conditions or other events and factors that are beyond our control.. In the past, following periods of significant volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies in some circumstances.  If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in the market price for our common stock, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition."
