[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report, you should carefully consider the risks described below that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These risks are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Risks Related to our U.S. Telecom Segment. A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from a small number of customers.. A substantial portion of our U.S. Wireless revenue is generated from four national wireless service providers. Our U.S. wholesale wireless revenues accounted for approximately 25.6% of our consolidated revenues in 2017.. Our relationships with our roaming customers generally are much more financially significant for us than for our customers. Frequently, our relationships with our roaming customers do not require them to \"prefer\" our networks or require them to send us a minimum amount of traffic. Instead, roaming customers may choose to utilize other networks, if available, for their subscribers' roaming use. If our markets currently included in our roaming partners' home calling areas are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges or if we fail to keep any of our roaming customers satisfied with our service offerings or economic terms, we could lose their business, experience less roaming traffic or be unable to renew or enter into new agreements with these customers on beneficial terms (including pricing), resulting in a substantial loss of revenue, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these customers build or acquire wireless networks in our service areas we would lose revenue. Should any of these customers take such actions over a significant portion of the areas we serve, it may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Table of Contents. We may have difficulty meeting the growing demand for data services.. Demand for smartphones and data services continues to grow across all of our wireless markets and our value to our customers in some markets depends in part on our network's ability to provide high - quality and high capacity network service to smartphone devices. Indeed, much of the revenue growth in our wireless businesses in the past few years has been attributable to increased demand for data services. However, if data usage increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then - available capacity of any of our networks, our costs to deliver roaming services may be higher than we anticipate. In the United States, the dearth of available spectrum and or non-transparent spectral allocation practices in our industry means that we cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all to ensure our ability to maintain or grow our business and traffic volumes. As demand for advanced mobile data services continues to grow, we may have difficulty satisfying our retail and wholesale customers' demand for these services without substantial upgrades and additional capital expenditures and operating expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our International Telecom Segment. Our ability to restore our service quickly and economically following the impact of the Hurricanes in the U.S. Virgin Islands or future storms could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During September 2017, our operations and customers in the U.S. Virgin Islands were severely impacted by Hurricane Irma and subsequently Hurricane Maria (collectively, the \"Hurricanes\").  Both our wireless and wireline networks and commercial operations were severely damaged by these storms.   Our assessment of the level of wireline and wireless network damage by the Hurricanes and corresponding loss is $35.4 million.  This amount, along with $3.2 million of additional operating expenses that we specifically incurred during the quarter to address the impact of the Hurricanes, has been recorded in our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017.  While we received approximately $34.6 million in insurance coverage proceeds in the first quarter of 2018 for a combination of replacement costs of damaged property, extra expenses and business interruption, we believe that these amounts will not cover the total losses from the Hurricanes.. Following the Hurricanes, service to substantially all of our customers over the HFC network was impacted due to both the loss of power and damage to our network. Accordingly, we issued approximately $19.3 million of service credits to our subscribers in 2017 which are reflected as a reduction of our wireline revenue within our International Telecom segment.   As a result of the level of damage to our network and the U.S. Virgin Islands economy, it may take significant time to return to pre-hurricane revenue levels.    Due to the ongoing restoration of our wireline infrastructure, we currently expect this impact to wireline revenue to continue into 2018, albeit decreasing each month as we are able to restore service. If we are unable to restore service on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations through continued loss of revenue and customer attrition to our competitor.. Changes in Universal Service Fund (\"USF\") funding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In November 2011, the FCC released an order reforming the USF program for all types of USF support recipients beginning in 2012, including Viya. This order, and follow-on orders issued by the FCC, include, among other things, new services and reporting obligations applicable to USF support recipients.  Changes in the FCC's leadership, including their implementation of an agenda to be set by the new U.S. Administration, could materially impact the amount of support that we expect to receive or the performance obligations attached thereto. Viya currently receives high cost USF support, which was approximately $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Although we cannot predict the impact of such changes on the amounts we pay or receive in USF funds, the changes, or any future changes, could impact Viya's USF funding negatively, and consequently, our efforts to build and maintain networks in the U.S. Virgin Islands market and our ability to provide services supported by USF funds, which could adversely affect the revenues of our International Telecom segment.. 27. Table of Contents. We may have difficulty securing video services content from third parties desirable to our customers on terms and conditions favorable to us.. We have secured licensing agreements with numerous content providers to allow our various video services businesses to offer a wide array of the most popular programming to our subscribers. Typically, we make long-term commitments relating to these rights in advance even though we cannot predict the popularity of the services or ratings the programming will generate. License fees may be negotiated for a number of years and may include provisions requiring us to pay part of the fees even if we choose not to distribute such programming.. The success of our video services operations depends on our ability to access an attractive selection of video programming from content providers on terms and pricing favorable to us. Our ability to provide movies, sports and other popular programming is a major factor that attracts subscribers to our services. Our inability to provide the content desired by our subscribers on satisfactory terms or at all could result in reduced demand for, and lower revenue from, our cable operations that may not offset the typically large subscription fees that we pay for these services. In certain cases, we may not have satisfactory contracts in place with the owners of our distributed content, leading to such parties' desire for increased renewed contractual pricing or leading to disputes with such parties including claims for copyright or other intellectual property infringement.. The cost of obtaining programming associated with providing our video services is significant. The terms of many of our programming contracts are for multiple years and provide for future increases in the fees we must pay.  In addition, local over-the-air television stations are increasingly seeking substantial fees for retransmission of their stations over our cable networks. Historically, we have absorbed increased programming costs in large part through increased prices to our customers. We cannot assure that competitive and other marketplace factors will permit us to continue to pass through these costs or that we are able to renew programming agreements on comparable or favorable terms. Also, programming in the Caribbean typically includes Latin American or Spanish programming, while our subscribers typically prefer content in English. To the extent that we are unable to reach acceptable agreements with programmers or obtain desired content, we may be forced to remove programming from our line-up, which could result in a loss of customers and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our exclusive license to provide local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana is subject to significant political and regulatory risk.. Since 1991, our subsidiary Guyana Telephone and Telegraph, Ltd. (\"GT&T\") has operated in Guyana pursuant to a license from the Government of Guyana to be the exclusive provider of domestic fixed and international voice and data services pursuant to a license with an initial term ending in December 2010, which was renewable at our sole option for an additional 20 year term. In November 2009, we notified the Government of Guyana of our election to renew our exclusive license for an additional 20 year term expiring in 2030. On December 15, 2010, we received correspondence from the Government of Guyana indicating that our license had been renewed until such time that new legislation is in place with regard to the Government's intention to expand competition within the sector; however, we believe our exclusive license continues to be valid unless and until such time as we enter into an alternative agreement with the Government.. In 2016, the Government of Guyana passed new telecommunications legislation introducing material changes to many features of Guyana's existing telecommunications regulatory regime with the intention of introducing additional competition into Guyana's telecommunications sector.  The legislation that passed, however, has not yet been implemented and does not have the effect of terminating our exclusive license.  Instead the legislation as passed requires the Minister of Telecommunications to conduct further proceedings and issue implementing orders to put into effect the various provisions of the legislation.  We have met with the Government of Guyana to discuss modifications of the Company's exclusivity rights and other rights under its existing agreement and license.  However, there can be no assurance that those discussions will be concluded before the Government issues new licenses as contemplated by the legislation or at all, or that they will satisfactorily address the Company's contractual exclusivity rights.  Although we believe that we would be entitled to damages or other compensation for any involuntary termination of our contractual exclusivity rights, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in a proceeding to enforce our rights or that our actions would effectively halt any unilateral action by the Government.. 28. Table of Contents. We are dependent on GT&T for approximately 20% of our total consolidated revenues. A loss of exclusivity on international voice and data service would result in a reduction in the international call traffic and as a result, a loss in that portion of our wireline revenue. Any modification, early termination or other revocation of the exclusive domestic fixed and international voice and data license could adversely affect our revenues and profits and diminish the value of our investment in Guyana.. Risks Related to Our Renewable Energy Segment. Our Facilities have a limited operating history.. All of our Facilities have limited operating histories. Our expectations about the performance of these Facilities are based on assumptions and estimates made without the benefit of a lengthy operating history. There can be no assurance that our Facilities will perform as anticipated or projected and the failure of these Facilities to perform as we expect could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of our Renewable Energy segment.. Our revenues are dependent on the performance and effectiveness of our PPAs.. The cash flow from the PPAs is significantly affected by our ability to collect payments from offtakers under our PPAs. While we believe that all of our current customers are high - quality credit entities in their local market, if for any reason these customers are unable or unwilling to fulfill their related contractual obligations or if they refuse to accept delivery of power or otherwise terminate or breach such agreements, such non - payment could have a material adverse effect on our revenues.  In addition, our inability to perform our obligations under the PPAs could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues. For instance, our inability to meet certain operating thresholds or performance measures under certain of our PPAs within specified time periods exposes us to the risk of covering the cost of any shortfall or early termination by such customer.. Certain of our PPAs provide for early termination for a variety of reasons, including in the event that (a) an offtaker is unable to appropriate funds from state and local governments, (b) there is a change of law that substantially reduces the value of utility credits, (c) termination for convenience, or (d) the Facility causes damage to the premises or roof and our customer fails to repair or causes  (d) change of control in the managing structure of the offtaker, (e) insolvency of the offtaker, or (f) any change in the credit worthiness of the offtaker . While we would be entitled to a termination fee (typically set at the terminal value of the PPA) in most cases, the termination fee might not be a sufficient substitute for the payments otherwise due under the PPAs. There can be no assurances that such appropriations will be made or timely made in any given year or that tax or other incentives will continue to be available for the purchase of solar energy. In the event a PPA for one or more of our projects is terminated or payments are not made (or not made in a timely manner) pursuant to such provisions, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot provide any assurance that PPAs containing such provisions will not be terminated or, in the event of termination, we will be able to enter into a replacement PPA. Moreover, any replacement PPA may be on terms less favorable to us than the PPA that was terminated.. Our revenue in the United States may be exposed to SREC uncertainty, inflation - based price increases or other external factors.. In the United States, we also generate solar renewable energy credits, or SRECs, which are government emissions allowances obtained through power generation and compliance with various regulations from the government as our projects produce electricity. Revenue is recognized as SRECs are sold through long-term purchase agreements with a third party at the contractual rate specified in the agreement. In 2017, approximately 58% of our renewable energy revenue generated in the United States was earned from SREC contracts and PBIs and 42% was earned from PPA revenues. SRECs may also be transferred directly to our lenders in lieu of payments due on loans.  The revenue derived from our sale of SRECs is dependent on local governments in Massachusetts and New Jersey electing to maintain the programs that grant SRECs for power production in these states.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition, certain of our PPAs do not contain inflation based price increases, resulting in an average, weighted by MWp, escalator on our PPAs of 1.08%. To the extent that we experience high rates of inflation we may experience increased operation costs without concomitant increase in revenue. In addition, a portion of the revenues under certain of the PPAs for our solar energy projects are subject to price adjustments triggered by a decrease in the market price of electricity over time. This would also have a negative impact on our ability to attract new customers and increase our portfolio, as we believe that an offtaker's decision to develop our solar projects is primarily driven by a desire to decrease their traditional energy costs. If we are unable to negotiate more favorable pricing, it could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of our Renewable Energy segment. We also believe the solar industry will continue to experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that such periods will put pressure on pricing, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are reliant on key vendors for operation, maintenance and interconnection of our Facilities.. In the U.S., pursuant to our O&M Agreements, our O&M vendor is required to operate and maintain our Facilities. In India, our own staff operates and maintains our Facilities. While our U.S. O&M vendor is obligated to indemnify us to the extent it fails to perform under our O&M Agreements, any such failure could cause a delay or reduction in payments under our PPAs. Additionally, we contract with utilities through an interconnection agreement to export excess energy generated by our Facilities to an offtaker and/or the utility electrical grid. Our O&M vendor is required to perform our obligations under the interconnection agreement. If our O&M vendor fails to so perform and interconnection is lost, our offtakers will not receive any energy or net metering credits from such Facility nor a bill credit for energy that would otherwise have been exported to the utility and we may be required to cover these amounts under our PPAs.. Additional Risks Related to our Renewables Business in India. India is undergoing rapid governmental and regulatory change, which may have both short and long term material adverse impacts on our operations and ability to execute our strategic growth plans.. The Government of Prime Minister Modi in India has expressed its intention to cut down on corruption and tax avoidance wherever possible and in parallel with these anti-corruption measures, the Government is also looking to encourage foreign investment in India.  In the long term we consider that this change will be beneficial and increase foreign investor interest in the country; however, some changes have had a significant impact on our operations in India in the short-term.  For instance, India is currently a predominately cash economy, with millions of people having no bank accounts and transacting solely in cash.  On November 8, 2016, the Indian government removed the 500 (US$7.60) and 1,000 rupee notes from circulation and replaced them with new 2,000 rupee notes.  This step was taken to remove money from the black economy with a view to reducing corruption, increasing tax receipts, and moving India to a modern, non-cash economy.  While we have very limited cash transactions in India (mostly in relation to the payment of employee travelling and subsistence expenses), much of the construction team employed by our sub-contractors is paid in cash, often on a daily basis.  With the removal of all bank notes of a value of more than 100 rupees (US$1.50), our sub-contractors have struggled to source the cash required to pay their labor, resulting in many of the workers responsible for our ongoing solar Facility construction failing to continue to show up to the worksite.  To remedy the situation, our sub-contractors have been opening bank accounts on behalf of their workers to enable them to receive their compensation electronically, however, the construction of our solar farms in India has met with substantial delays as a result.. It is possible that the Government plans to take similar action in other areas to achieve this objective, however, we cannot predict what actions may be taken and what effects such actions may have on our business either directly or indirectly in the short or long term.  Further, our business model in India is predicated on the availability of \"open access\" rules, which allow our customers to buy their electricity from us, rather than from traditional utility providers. Any major policy changes issued by the India government to current open access rules, or other major policy changes, particularly when implemented in such a short time frame or, could impair the development or operations of our solar projects and may adversely impact our ability to construct our power project portfolio or maintain operations, once constructed.. 30. Table of Contents. Our India operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India. Any failure to obtain, renew or comply with the terms of required approvals, licenses and permits in a timely manner or at all may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Any business in India is subject to a broad range of financial, administrative and other governmental regulations that may vary on a state-specific basis, and the renewables business in India is subject to additional environmental, safety and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain a number of approvals, licenses, filings, registrations and permits for our ordinary course investment and operations activities, as well as developing and operating power projects. For example, in order to begin construction, we must first ensure that land is properly zoned, then obtain the various approvals during construction of our solar projects and prior to the commissioning certificate being issued, including capacity allocation and capacity transfer approvals, approvals from the local pollution control boards, evacuation and the grid connectivity approvals and approval from the chief electrical inspector for installation and energization of electrical installations at the solar project sites. Although some of the approvals required can be obtained prior to construction of a project commencing, some of the licenses required, particularly in relation to commencing the export of electricity, can only be obtained once a project is constructed and ready to commence operations.  Obtaining and maintaining these approvals and permits can be time-consuming and burdensome.  We have allotted a period of time to allow for such licenses to be obtained in our business model, but there is no assurance that we will receive these approvals from the relevant approving authority in a timely manner or at all.. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the adoption or implementation of new laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of laws or other similar developments in the future. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to any new requirements in the future, and that we will be able to obtain and maintain such consents or permits in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will not become subject to any regulatory action on account of not having obtained or renewed such permits or filings in any past periods. Further, we cannot assure that the approvals, licenses, registrations and permits issued to us will not be subject to suspension or revocation for non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with any terms or conditions thereof, or pursuant to any regulatory action. Any failure to apply for, renew and obtain the required approvals, licenses, registrations or permits, or any suspension or revocation of any of the approvals, licenses, registrations and permits that have been or may be issued to us, or any onerous conditions made applicable to us in terms of such approvals, licenses, registrations or permits may impede the successful construction and/or operation of our power projects, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects in our Renewable Energy segment.. In addition, our financial performance will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, changes in government policies, including taxation policies, labor conditions, and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting India. The Indian government has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Currently, the Indian government has in place policies of economic liberalization; however, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy is significant. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting solar power producers, investments owned by non-Indian companies, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investments in India could change as well.   Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects in our Renewable Energy segment.. Land title in India can be uncertain and difficult to procure.. There is no central title registry for real property in India and the documentation of land records in India has not been fully computerized. Property records in India are generally maintained at the state and district level and in local languages, and are updated manually through physical records. Therefore, property records may not be available online for inspection or updated in a timely manner, may be illegible, untraceable, incomplete or inaccurate in certain respects, or may have been kept in poor condition, which may impede title investigations or our ability to rely on such property records. Furthermore, title to land in India is often fragmented, and in many cases, land may have multiple owners. Title may also suffer from irregularities, such as non-execution or non-registration of conveyance deeds and inadequate stamping, and may be subjected to encumbrances that we are unaware of. As a result, potential disputes or claims over title to the land on which our power projects will be constructed may arise. We recognize the material nature of this risk. 31. Table of Contents. and have invested heavily in and prioritized our real estate due diligence work by retaining in-house legal real estate experts to review and advise on real estate diligence and land ownership.  We are also looking to secure title insurance for land that we wish to purchase, although such title insurance is currently very uncommon in India. We believe that real estate issues are most likely to arise during the construction phase of a project, and note that in most cases the land we purchase for a project is likely to be bought from multiple land owners and so individual title issues may have a limited impact even where they materialize.  Nonetheless, any real estate issues could impair the development or operations of our solar projects and any defects in, or irregularities of, title may result in a loss of development or operating rights over the land that may adversely impact our ability to construct our power project portfolio or maintain operations, once constructed. Further, the government may exercise its rights of eminent domain, or compulsory acquisition in respect of land on which our projects are or will be located. Any of this may adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows in the future. For instance, in one such state a PIL (Public Interest Litigation) has been filed in the courts against the acquisition of large parcels of land by the solar power generation companies. All such litigations may result in new regulations, adversely affecting our project construction and operation.. We may not be able to timely and effectively construct our developed solar project portfolio.. The development and construction of solar projects involve numerous risks and uncertainties and require extensive research, planning and due diligence. We have already incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs for land and interconnection rights, regulatory approvals, preliminary engineering, permits, and legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a solar project is economically, technologically or otherwise feasible.  Our existing operations, personnel, systems and internal control may not be adequate to support our growth and expansion and may require us to make additional unanticipated investments in our infrastructure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies successfully or respond to competitive pressures. As a result, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our ability to realize profits in our investment may depend greatly on our ability to achieve the following:. <U+F0B7>accurately identify and prioritize geographic markets for entry, both in terms of market demand and viability of solar conditions and grid connection;. <U+F0B7>manage local operations, capital investment or components sourcing in compliance with regulatory requirements;. <U+F0B7>procure land at cost-effective prices and on terms favorable to us;. <U+F0B7>procure equipment and negotiate favorable payment and other terms with suppliers;. <U+F0B7>obtain grid interconnection rights;. <U+F0B7>successfully complete construction by the expiration of any procured grid interconnection rights;. <U+F0B7>secure reliable and enforceable EPC and O&M resources; and. <U+F0B7>sign PPAs or other arrangements on a long-term basis and on terms that are favorable to us.. Construction of our solar projects may be also be adversely affected by circumstances outside of our control, including inclement weather, adverse geological and environmental conditions, a failure to receive regulatory approvals on schedule or third-party delays in providing supplies and other materials. Changes in project plans or designs, or defective or late execution may increase our costs from our initial estimates and cause delays. Global supply and demand for key equipment, particularly solar panels, and foreign exchange movements may increase procurement costs as the majority of the equipment used by us is sourced from outside of India. Labor shortages, work stoppages, labor disputes, disputes with neighboring land owners and/or local villages could significantly delay a projector increase our costs. Any construction setbacks or delays could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain, maintain and perform under the PPAs we seek to procure and could result in financial penalties under these agreements and/or the termination of such agreements, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects and results of operations in our Renewable Energy segment.. 32. Table of Contents. We are reliant on India's infrastructure to deliver power and any failure or technical challenges may lead to delays or other impediments that may have an adverse effect on our operations or financial condition.. India has a target of installing 175 GW of renewable energy capacity installed by March 2022, of which it is intended that 100 GWp will be solar power capacity.  New capacity additions have historically been lower than the targeted capacity. If the government fails to reach its targeted solar capacity, it will directly result in a slowdown in our growth opportunities and adversely affect our ability to achieve our long term business objectives, targets and goals. Moreover, due to the intermittent nature of most forms of renewable energy generation, significant renewable energy generation capacity on a limited area of grid infrastructure can cause technical challenges to keep the grid in balance.  Such technical issues could result in a grid company looking to turn down the export capacity of one of our solar projects for a limited or extended period, or the grid company incurring additional costs in order to manage their grid infrastructure, and looking to recharge such costs to renewable energy generators.  Such actions by a grid operator could have a material adverse impact on our prospects and results of operations in our Renewable Energy segment.. For distributing power to an offtaker, we generally rely on transmission lines and other transmission and distribution facilities that are owned and operated by the respective state governments or public entities. In absence of such transmission and distribution networks, we may engage contractors to build transmission lines and other related infrastructure. In such a case, we will be exposed to additional costs and risks associated with developing transmission lines and other related infrastructure, such as the ability to obtain right of way from land owners for the construction of our transmission lines, which may delay and increase the costs of our projects. We may not be able to secure access to the available transmission and distribution networks at reasonable prices, in a timely manner or at all.. In some instances, we are required to distribute power to customers across long distances from our project sites. Any constrains or limited access to transmission and distribution networks, could curtail the transmission and dispatch of the full output of our projects and we may have to suspend producing electricity during the period when electricity cannot be transmitted, thereby reducing the net power generation of our projects. Any such curtailment of our power projects' output levels will reduce our electricity output and limit operational efficiencies, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. The period between project origination and the commencement of commercial operations can be extended and may result in delays that materially and adversely impact our results of operations.. Solar projects typically generate revenue only after becoming commercially operational and starting to sell electricity to offtakers through the power grid. There may be long delays from the development process to projects becoming shovel-ready, due to the timing of land procurement, permitting and the grid connectivity process. There could be a significant delay between our upfront investments and actual generation of revenue, or any added delay in between due to unforeseen events.  These delays could result in equipment costs rising (e.g. due to material foreign currency movements) and the price at which we are able to sell the power generated falling (as the PPA is only entered into at the point where the project is close to being operational).  Such changes could materially and adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and cash flows prospects in our Renewable Energy segment.. Our ability to realize the benefits of our investment in India may be delayed and our growth prospects depend to a significant extent on the availability of additional funding options with acceptable terms.. We require a significant amount of cash to fund the installation and construction of our projects in India and other aspects of our operations, and have planned to incur debt or acquire additional equity funding in the future to complement our investment. We may also require additional cash due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue in order to remain competitive. We intend to evaluate third-party financing options, including any bank loans, equity partners, financial leases and securitization. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in locating additional suitable sources of financing on a timely basis or at all, or on terms or at costs that are acceptable to us, which may materially adversely affect our ability to continue construction and expand our operations in India. In addition, rising interest rates could adversely impact our ability to secure financing on favorable terms.. 33. Table of Contents. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a number of uncertainties, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows;. <U+F0B7>the general condition of global equity and debt capital markets;. <U+F0B7>decline of the Indian rupee compared to U.S. dollar; and. <U+F0B7>the continued confidence of banks and other financial institutions in our company and the solar power industry, amongst other factors.. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to us and our stockholders and any debt financing may contain restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility going forward and may adversely impact our ability to achieve our intended business objectives.. The failure to obtain third party financing may result in us failing to achieve the scale that we are currently expecting, and the failure to reach this scale would result in lower economies of scale, and as a result could materially and adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and cash flows in our Renewable Energy segment.. If demand for solar power is decreased or does not develop according to expected timelines, or we are unable to meet such demand, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Many factors may affect the demand for solar projects in India, including the following:. <U+F0B7>changes in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of traditional power and other renewable energy sources;. <U+F0B7>the cost and reliability of solar projects compared with traditional energy sources;. <U+F0B7>the availability of grid capacity to dispatch power generated from solar projects;. <U+F0B7>the reliability of grid infrastructure in India; and. <U+F0B7>governmental policies governing the electric utility industry that may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar energy.. If market demand for solar projects fails to develop sufficiently or is delayed in its development, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. We face significant competition from traditional and renewable energy companies.. We face significant competition in the markets in which we operate. Our competitors may have greater operational, financial, technical, management expertise or other resources than we do and may be able to achieve better economies of scale and lower cost of capital, allowing them to sell electricity at more competitive rates. Our local competitors are likely to be funded from Indian sources of capital, and so will not have to factor foreign currency movements into their target returns, which may also enable them to sell electricity at more competitive rates.  Our competitors may also have a more effective or established localized business presence or a greater appetite for risk (e.g. in relation to equipment warranties) and greater willingness or ability to operate with little or no operating margins for sustained periods of time. Our market position depends on our financing, development and operation capabilities, reputation and track record. Any increase in competition or reduction in our competitive capabilities could have a significant adverse impact on the margins we generate from our solar projects. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete effectively, and our failure to do so could result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows in our Renewable Energy segment.. The growth of our solar business is dependent on our ability to identify and acquire additional solar projects on favorable terms.. Our business strategy for our Renewable Energy segment is to grow via acquisition and development of additional energy generation assets, with a current focus on solar distributed generation. In order to do so, we are reliant on management to effectively identify and consummate acquisition or new project opportunities on a timely basis and on. 34. Table of Contents. favorable terms. The number of acquisition and development opportunities is limited, and we compete with some organizations with greater size, scale and resources. In addition, the design, construction and operation of solar energy projects are highly regulated, require various governmental approvals and permits, including environmental approvals and permits, and may be subject to the imposition of related conditions that vary by jurisdiction. We cannot predict whether all permits required for a given project will be granted or granted on terms that are favorable to our business plans. If we are unable to grow our Renewable Energy segment, we may not be able to succeed with our overall business growth strategy.. Other Risks Related to Our Businesses. Storms and changes in meteorological conditions may materially disrupt our operations.. Many of the areas in which we operate have experienced severe weather conditions over the years including hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, damaging storms and floods. Some areas in which we operate may also be at risk of earthquakes. Such events may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations, such as the recent impacts of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in the U.S. Virgin Islands in 2017. Major hurricanes also passed directly over Bermuda in 2003, 2014 and 2016 causing major damage to our network and to the island's infrastructure. Guyana has suffered from severe rains and flooding in the past as well. Our solar production at our facilities in Massachusetts was negatively impacted in early 2015 by repeated heavy snowfall and prolonged cold weather.  While some of these events have not had a significant negative impact on the operating results or financial condition of the affected businesses or our overall business, we cannot be sure that these types of events will not have such an impact in the future or that we can procure insurance coverage against these types of severe weather events under reasonable business terms and conditions or any insurance coverage we are able to maintain will adequately compensate us for all damage and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes.. The electricity produced and revenues generated by a solar electric generation facility is highly dependent on suitable solar and associated weather conditions and our solar panels and inverters could be damaged by severe weather, such as hailstorms, blizzards or tornadoes. In addition, replacement and spare parts for key components may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. Unfavorable weather and atmospheric conditions could reduce the output of our Facilities and lead to a loss of revenue from our offtakers.. Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations.. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations and foreign government regulations, all of which are subject to change. As new laws and regulations are issued or discontinued,  we may be required to modify our business plans or operations materially. We cannot be certain that we can do so in a cost - effective manner. For example, a portion of our revenues in our Renewable Energy segment from PPAs is dependent on the ongoing availability of tax credits for clean energy and changes to the FCC's universal service support could materially impact the amount of support that we expect to receive or the performance obligations attached thereto.  Any effort by the new U.S. administration or other jurisdictions to overturn or modify laws, regulations or policies that are supportive of renewable energy projects or that remove costs or other limitations on other types of generation that compete with renewable energy projects could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, the failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, inability to perform under our PPAs, the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.. Our operations in the United States are subject to the Communications Act. The interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the Communications Act and the FCC rules implementing the Communications Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, although comprehensive legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act and other regulation in the next few years. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with federal and state regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with. 35. Table of Contents. various rules regarding our consumer marketing practices and the contents of our bills, on an on - going basis. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our licenses to provide service should not be revoked.. The loss of certain licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services.. In the United States, wireless licenses generally are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license, although recently-issued 600 MHz licenses were issued for a slightly longer initial term, to account for the need for broadcast television incumbents to vacate the spectrum before the new wireless licensees could construct. Licensees may renew their licenses (including renewal of 600 MHz licenses) for additional ten - year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our 600 MHz wireless licenses all expire in 2029. Our other wireless licenses in the U.S. expire between 2018 and 2027. While we intend to renew our licenses expiring this year, the renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and CALEA requirements may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software.. In our international markets, telecommunications licenses are typically issued and regulated by the applicable telecommunications ministry. The application and renewal process for these licenses may be lengthy, require us to expend substantial renewal fees, and/or be subject to regulatory or legislative uncertainty, such as we are experiencing in Guyana, as described above. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties.. Failure of network or information technology systems, including as a result of security breaches, could have an adverse effect on our business.. We are highly dependent on our information technology (\"IT\") systems for the operation of our network, or Facilities delivery of services to our customers and compilation of our financial results. Failure of these IT systems, through cyberattacks, breaches of security, or otherwise, may cause disruptions to our operations. Our inability to operate our network, Facilities and back office systems as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/ impact the timely and accurate delivery of our services or other information. Other risks that may also cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for our customers include power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break - ins or otherwise. Disruptions in our networks and the unavailability of our services or our inability to efficiently and effectively complete necessary technology or systems upgrades or conversions could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violation of the terms of our licenses and contracts with customers. Additionally, breaches of security may lead to unauthorized access to our customer or employee information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks, and we may be subject to litigation, regulatory penalties and financial losses.  These failures could also lead to significant negative publicity, regulatory problems and litigation.. Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us.. Our industry faces rapid and significant changes in technology that directly impact our business, including the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tevolving industry standards;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements resulting from changing regulatory regimes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe allocation of radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate wireless services;. 36. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in end - user requirements and preferences;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconvergence between video and data services;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopment of data and broadband capabilities and rapidly expanding demand for those capabilities;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmigration to new - generation services such as \"5G\" network technology; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintroduction of new telecom delivery platforms such as next generation satellite services.. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, at a minimum we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures to add to our networks' capacity, coverage and technical capability. For example, we have spent considerable amounts adding higher speed, higher capacity mobile data services to many of our networks in recent years and we think it likely that more such expenditures, including adding LTE mobile data technologies, will be needed over the next few years.. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Alternative or new technologies may be developed that provide communications services superior to those available from us, which may adversely affect our business. For example, to accommodate the demand by our wireless customers for next - generation advanced wireless products such as high - speed data and streaming video, we may be required to purchase additional spectrum, however, we have had difficulty finding spectrum for sale or on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, usage of wireless voice or broadband services in excess of our expectations could strain our capacity, causing service disruptions and result in higher operating costs and capital expenditures. In each of our markets, providing more and higher speed data services through our wireless or wireline networks may require us to make substantial investments in additional telecommunications transport capacity connecting our networks to the Internet, and in some cases such capacity may not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. Failure to provide these services or to upgrade to new technologies on a timely basis and at an acceptable cost could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with carriers in our markets.. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of handsets, accessories, equipment and services relating to our network or Facility infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our handset lineup, network infrastructure, solar equipment and our back - office IT systems infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber or revenue growth and operating results could suffer significantly.. We source wireless devices for our retail wireless businesses from a small number of handset resellers and to a lesser extent, equipment manufacturers and depend on access to compelling devices at reasonable prices on primary and secondary markets for these devices, as well as timely delivery of devices to meet market demands. The inability to provide a competitive device lineup could materially impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. We are also reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Ericsson, Motorola, Alcatel - Lucent and Nokia and a limited number of solar equipment manufacturers, including Yingli, GCL,  and Inventec for photovoltaic modules and SMA and Satcon for inverters.. We are also dependent on the ability of our solar equipment manufacturers to fulfill the warranties on our solar equipment, which typically range from 5 to 25 years in length, in the event of equipment malfunction. If these suppliers cease operations or for some reason default on their warranties, we would have to bear the expense our repairing or replacing any faulty equipment. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be. 37. Table of Contents. materially adversely affected if we cannot make claims under warranties covering our Facilities. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis.. We are actively evaluating investment, acquisition and other strategic opportunities, which may affect our long - term growth prospects.. We actively evaluate acquisition, investment, business sales and combinations, and other strategic opportunities, both domestic and international, in telecommunications, energy - related and other industries, including in areas that may not be seen by the broader market as timely today. We may focus on opportunities that we believe have potential for long - term organic and strategic growth or that may otherwise satisfy our return and other investment criteria. Any acquisition or investment that we might make outside of the telecommunications or solar industries would pose the risk inherent in us entering into a new, unrelated business, including the ability of our holding company management team to effectively oversee the management team of such operations. Similarly, there are risks inherent in the sale of a business or assets, including the potential of a transaction failing to close due to last minute negotiations, regulatory issues, or the like which can be disruptive to our operations and costly.  There can be no assurance as to whether, when or on what terms we will be able to invest in, acquire or divest any businesses or assets or that we will be able to successfully integrate the business or realize the perceived benefits of any acquisition. Any such transactions may be accomplished through the payment of cash, issuance of shares of our capital stock or incurrence of additional debt, or a combination thereof. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $227.0 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short term investments approximately $155.8 million of long - term debt. How and when we deploy our balance sheet capacity will figure prominently in our longer - term growth prospects and stockholder returns.. Increased competition may adversely affect growth, require increased capital expenditures, result in the loss of existing customers and decrease our revenues.. We face competition in the markets in which we operate. For example:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn the United States, our greatest competitive risk to our wholesale wireless business is the possibility that our current roaming customers may elect to build or enhance their own networks within the rural market in which we currently provide service, which is commonly known as \"over - building.\" If our roaming customers, who generally have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, determine to over - build our network, their need for our roaming services will be significantly reduced or eliminated.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn Bermuda and the Caribbean, we compete primarily against Digicel and other larger providers such as Liberty Global.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn our solar power business, we face competition from traditional utilities and renewable energy companies. Many of our competitors are larger with greater resources and are less dependent on third parties for the sourcing of equipment or operation and maintenance of their solar facilities.. Over the last decade, an increase in competition in many areas of the telecommunications industry has contributed to a decline in prices for communication services, including mobile wireless services, local and long - distance telephone service, and data services. Increased competition in the industry may decrease prices further. In addition, increased competition in the telecommunications and renewable energy industries could reduce our customer base, require us to invest in new facilities and capabilities and reduce revenues, margins and returns.. Our International Telecom segment operates mainly in island locations, where a limited number of providers in these small markets maintain strong competition. In several of our markets, we hold a dominant position as the local incumbent carrier and in others may have a competitive advantage in our ability to bundle some combination of voice, data, video and wireless services.  Increased competition, whether by new entrants or increased capital investment in our competitors' existing networks, will make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers in our small markets, which could result in lower revenue and cash flow from operating activities.. 38. Table of Contents. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. General economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services, require a change in the services we sell or have a significant impact in our operating costs. Energy costs are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, or weather conditions. Rapid and significant changes in these and other commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins. General economic conditions can also be affected by the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism, or other significant national or international events.. In addition, an economic downturn in our markets or the global market may lead to slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions that could have an impact on our businesses. For example, among other things:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA decrease in tourism could negatively affect revenues and growth opportunities from operations in the islands and in a number of areas covered by U.S. rural and wholesale wireless operations that serve tourist destinations.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAn increase in \"bad debt\", or the amounts that we have to write off of our accounts receivable could result from our inability to collect subscription fees from our subscribers.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe rely on the population of Guyanese living abroad who initiate calls to Guyana or are responsible for remittances to relatives living in Guyana. A prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or Canadian economies could affect inbound calling and, therefore, our revenue in Guyana.. The impact, if any, that these events might have on us and our business, is uncertain.. Our operations are subject to economic, political, currency and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position.. Our operations may face adverse financial consequences and operational problems due to political or economic changes, such as changes in national or regional political or economic conditions, laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As new laws and regulations are issued or discontinued to implement an agenda set by the new U.S. administration, we may be required to materially modify our business plans or operations.  Any of these changes could adversely affect our revenues or financial position.. In India in particular, our exposure to the fluctuation in the value of the rupee will have a direct impact on our ability to meet expected returns projected in U.S. dollars or make payment on any debt denominated in dollars. Any further currency fluctuation could have a material adverse impact in our ability to realize the returns we anticipated in making such investments.. Our ability to recruit and retain experienced management and technical personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to maintain internal controls.. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers and the officers of our operating units, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, strong competition for qualified personnel in the communications and energy industries and in our markets, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. We rely heavily on local management to run our operating units. Many of the markets we operate in are small and remote, making it difficult to attract and retain talented and qualified managers and staff in those markets. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract or retain personnel with the sophistication to run complicated telecommunications or solar equipment, networks and systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain \"key person\" life insurance on any of our key employees and none of the executives at our parent company are under employment agreements.. 39. Table of Contents. In addition, cultural differences abroad and local practices of conducting business in our foreign operations may not be in line with the business practices, recordkeeping and ethics standards in the United States. In order to continue to ensure compliance with foreign and U.S. laws, accounting standards and our own corporate policies, we have implemented financial and operational controls, created an internal audit team responsible for monitoring and ensuring compliance with our internal accounting controls, and routinely train our employees, vendors and consultants. However, having substantial foreign operations also increases the complexity and difficulty of developing, implementing and monitoring these internal controls and procedures. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility.. The credit facilities that we and our subsidiaries maintain include certain financial and other covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to do the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into transactions with affiliates; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge, consolidate or sell our assets.. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit facility or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the repayment of the related debt and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to which a cross - acceleration or cross - default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds.. Our Chairman is our largest stockholder and will continue to exert significant influence over us.. Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., our Chairman and the father of our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, together with related entities, affiliates and family members (including our Chief Executive Officer), approximately 27% of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, he has the ability to exert significant influence over other matters brought before our Board of Directors, such as proposed changes in our strategy or business plans and our major financing decisions. His interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our Common Stock.. Low trading volume of our stock may limit our stockholders ability to sell shares and/or result in lower sale prices.. For the three months prior to February 1, 2018, the average daily trading volume of our Common Stock was approximately 97,000 shares. As a result, our stockholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the manner or at a price that might be attainable if our Common Stock were more actively traded. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock may not be reflective of its underlying value.. 40. Table of Contents. We may not pay dividends in the future.. Our stockholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have consistently paid quarterly dividends in the past, but may cease to do so or decrease the dividend amount at any time. Our credit facility sets certain limitations on our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our capital stock. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that may further restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable state laws, our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management's assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors."                                                                                                                                             
