[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following factors, as well as, factors described elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or in other filings by Avalon with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect Avalon’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results.. Voting control by management. Avalon has two classes of common stock, Class A and Class B. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders. Except for the election of Avalon’s Board of Directors, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock vote together as a single class on all matters presented for a vote to the shareholders. The holders of the Avalon Class B Common Stock, which consists principally of the management of Avalon, have approximately 66 percent of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding Avalon Common Stock. Currently, the holders of the Avalon Class A Common Stock will not, either alone or acting collectively, be able to elect a majority of the members of Avalon’s Board of Directors (the “Avalon Board”) or control many corporate actions. However, the holders of the Avalon Class A Common Stock, voting as a separate class, have the right to elect the number of directors equal to at least 25 percent of the total Board of Directors of Avalon until the outstanding Avalon Class B Common Stock constitutes less than 50 percent of the total voting power of the outstanding Avalon Common Stock, after which time the holders of the Avalon Class A and Class B Common Stock will vote as a single class for the election of directors and all matters presented for a vote to the shareholders. The holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, voting as separate classes, must also approve amendments to the Articles of Incorporation that adversely affect the shares of their class.. 5. Each share of Class B Common Stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the shareholder, into one share of Class A Common Stock. Shares of Class B Common Stock are also automatically converted into shares of Class A Common Stock on the transfer of such shares to any person other than Avalon, another holder of Class B Common Stock or a Permitted Transferee, as defined in Avalon’s Articles of Incorporation.. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Articles of Incorporation, Code of Regulations and Ohio Law. The Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations of Avalon, as well as, Ohio statutory law, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of Avalon not approved by the Avalon Board. Such provisions may also have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition or change of control of Avalon, even though such proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of the Avalon stockholders. Such provisions could also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of the current management of Avalon without the concurrence of the Avalon Board. These provisions have been designed to enable Avalon to develop its business and foster its long-term growth without disruptions caused by the threat of a takeover not deemed by the Avalon Board to be in the best interest of Avalon and its stockholders.. Dividend policy. The dividend policy of Avalon is determined by the Avalon Board. Avalon presently intends to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of its business and, therefore, does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. Avalon’s market for shares may be subject to greater volatility and limited daily activity. Market fluctuations, as well as economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the Avalon Class A Common Stock. Given the relatively small market capitalization of Avalon, the market for its Class A Common Stock may be subject to greater volatility than would be the case for a large company. In addition, the selling and buying of shares on a daily basis may be limited because of the relatively small capitalization of Avalon.. A majority of Avalon’s business is not subject to long-term contracts. A significant portion of Avalon’s business is generated from waste brokerage and management services provided to customers and is not subject to long-term contracts. In light of current economic, regulatory and competitive conditions, there can be no assurance that Avalon’s current customers will continue to transact business with Avalon at historical levels. Failure by Avalon to retain its current customers or to replace lost business could adversely impact the future financial performance of Avalon.. Avalon’s captive landfill management business is dependent upon a single customer as its sole source of revenue. If the captive landfill management business is unable to retain this customer, Avalon’s future financial performance could be adversely impacted.. The golf operations primary source of revenues is derived from the members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club. Members are obligated to pay dues for a one year period. As such, the golf operations are primarily dependent on the sale and renewal of memberships in the Avalon Golf and Country Club, on a year to year basis.. Avalon's loan and security agreement may obligate it to repay debt before its maturity. The Company’s loan and security agreement contains certain covenants and events of default. Should Avalon be unable to meet one or more of these covenants, its lender may require it to repay any outstanding balance prior to the expiration date of the agreement. Our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants in our loan and security agreement may be affected by worsening economic or business conditions, or other events that may be beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities in amounts sufficient to enable us to service debt and meet these covenants. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. The Company cannot assure that additional sources of financing would be available to pay off any long-term borrowings under the loan and security agreement, so as to avoid default.. 6. Long-lived asset impairment. Certain events or changes in circumstances may indicate that the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets should be assessed. Such events or changes may include a significant decrease in market value, a significant change in the business climate in a particular market, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with historical losses or projected future losses. If an event occurs or changes in circumstances are present, Avalon estimates the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the applicable groups of long-lived assets and their eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying value, Avalon would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying value of the groups of long-lived assets exceeds their fair value. Avalon would determine the fair value by using quoted market prices, if available, for such assets; or if quoted market prices are not available, Avalon would discount the expected estimated future cash flows.. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows may impact the determination of fair value. Avalon’s assessments of cash flows represent management’s best estimate at the time of the impairment review. Avalon estimates the future cash flows expected to result from the use and, if applicable, the eventual disposition of the assets. The key variables that management must estimate include, among other factors, sales, costs, inflation and capital spending. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating these variables, and they include inherent uncertainties. If different cash flows had been estimated in the current period, the value of the long-lived assets could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, Avalon’s accounting estimates may change from period to period as conditions in markets change, and this could materially impact financial results in future periods.. Seasonality. Avalon’s operations are somewhat seasonal in nature since a significant portion of those operations are primarily conducted in selected northeastern and midwestern states. Additionally, Avalon’s golf courses are located in northeast Ohio and western Pennsylvania and are significantly dependent upon weather conditions during the golf season. As a result, Avalon’s financial performance could be adversely affected by adverse weather conditions.. Saltwater disposal wells. Saltwater disposal wells are regulated by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (“ODNR”), with portions of the disposal facilities regulated by the Ohio EPA. As exploitation of the Marcellus and Utica shale formations by the hydrofracturing process develops, regulatory and public awareness of the environmental risks of saltwater brine and its disposal in saltwater disposal wells is growing and consequently, it is expected that regulation governing the construction and operation of saltwater disposal wells will increase in scope and complexity. Increased regulation may result in increased construction and/or operating costs, which could adversely affect the financial results of Avalon.. There is a continuing risk during the saltwater disposal well’s operation of an environmental event causing contamination to the water tables in the surrounding area, or seismic events. The occurrence of a spill or contamination at a disposal well site could result in remedial expenses and/or result in the operations at the well site being suspended and/or terminated by the Ohio EPA or the ODNR. Incurring remedial expenses and/or a suspension or termination of Avalon’s right to operate one or more saltwater disposal wells at the well site could have an adverse effect on Avalon’s financial results.. As a result of a seismic event with a magnitude of 2.1 occurring on August 31, 2014, the Chief of the Division of Oil and Gas Resources Management (“Chief” or “Division”) issued Orders on September 3, 2014, to immediately suspend all operations of both of Avalon’s saltwater injection wells. The Orders were based on the findings that the two saltwater injection wells were located in close proximity to an area of known seismic activity and also that the saltwater injection wells pose a risk of increasing or creating seismic activity. The two saltwater injection wells are located approximately 112 feet apart. Based on these findings, the Chief ordered the immediate suspension of all operations of the two saltwater injection wells, until the Division could further evaluate the wells.. On September 5, 2014, Avalon submitted the information required by the Chief’s Order in regards to its AWMS #1 injection well, and the Chief lifted the suspension for that well on September 18, 2014. On September 19, 2014, Avalon submitted information and a written plan required by the Chief’s Order proposing the establishment of certain operations and management controls on injections at the AWMS #2 injection well. To date, the Division has not responded to that plan despite Avalon’s requests for feedback.. 7. On October 2, 2014, Avalon filed an appeal with the Ohio Oil and Gas Commission (the “Commission”) disputing the basis for suspending operations of AWMS #2 and also the authority of the Chief to immediately suspend such operations. On March 11, 2015, an appeal hearing was held. The Chief stated during the hearing that the suspension is only temporary, and that he expects that AWMS #2 will be allowed to inject once the state’s final policymaking is complete.. On August 12, 2015, the Commission upheld the temporary suspension of injection operations of AWMS #2 stating that the temporary suspension will allow the Chief to more fully evaluate the facts in anticipation of the Division’s implementation of a comprehensive regulatory plan that will specifically address injection-induced seismicity. Avalon appealed that decision in September 2015 to the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas, but that appeal was dismissed on a filing technicality. Avalon appealed the dismissal to the Ohio 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, which found the Commission erred in its filing of their decision. Following the Commission’s proper notice, Avalon appealed again to the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas (the “Court”).. On November 1, 2016 an appeal hearing was held in that Court. On December 23, 2016, the Court issued its Decision and Order in Avalon’s favor, and vacated the Commission’s decision. The Court found that the Division’s suspension and refusal to work with the Company for over 26 months was arbitrary and not in accordance with reason.  Subsequent to the ruling, and in accordance with the Court’s Decision and Order, both Avalon and the Division submitted their proposed restart plans to the Court. Avalon’s plan sets forth both the initial volumes and pressures and increases in volume and pressure while continuously monitoring seismicity and addressing the concerns of public health and safety.. On February 21, 2017, the Court issued its Final Decision and Order. The Court’s Final Decision and Order sets conditions for the restarting of AWMS #2 in accordance with the proposed restart plans filed by Avalon with minor revisions. While the Company was making preparations for restarting the well and opening the facility, the Division appealed the Final Decision and Order and filed a Motion to Stay the Court Order on February 22, 2017. The Motion to Stay was granted by the Ohio 10th Circuit Court of Appeals on March 21, 2017. On September 14, 2017, an appeal hearing was held. The Company is currently awaiting judgment from the court. In the event the suspension order is lifted, Avalon will make preparations for restarting the well and opening the facility in accordance with the restart plans. In the event that the temporary suspension is not lifted by the Ohio 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, Avalon will continue in its effort to receive a favorable ruling lifting the temporary suspension.. In addition, on August 26, 2016, Avalon filed a complaint in the 11th Appellate District Court in Trumbull County, Ohio for a Peremptory Writ of Mandamus to compel the Director of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (“ODNR”) to initiate appropriations procedures to determine damages from the illegal regulatory taking of the Company’s property, or issue an alternative remedy at law. There is currently no implemented state-wide policy on induced seismicity and The ODNR has refused to communicate with the Company regarding the status and requirements of any policymaking. The Company believes that the actions, and lack of responsible actions, by ODNR, which were triggered by a seismic event that presented no hazard or risk to any individual or to the environment, is a clear violation of the Company’s property rights and a violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution; Article I, Section 19 of the Ohio Constitution; and Ohio Revised Code Chapter 163.  The trial is tentatively scheduled to occur in the second quarter of 2018. The Company intends to vigorously pursue the Complaint and obtain due process and fair compensation.. Environmental liabilities. Avalon may be subject to liability for environmental contamination caused by pollutants, the transportation, treatment or disposal of which was arranged for by Avalon or one of its predecessors.. Although Avalon has compliance guidelines for its waste brokerage and management services business, Avalon could still incur a substantial liability for environmental damage not covered by or in excess of its insurance policy limits and, as such, its financial condition could be adversely affected.. Competitive pressures. The hazardous and nonhazardous waste disposal brokerage and management business is highly competitive and fragmented. Avalon’s waste disposal brokerage and management business competes with other brokerage companies, as well as, with companies which own treatment and disposal facilities. In addition to price, knowledge and service are key factors when competing for waste disposal brokerage and management business. Avalon’s waste disposal brokerage and management business obtains and retains customers by providing services and identifying cost-efficient disposal options unique to a customer’s needs. Consolidation within the solid waste industry has resulted in reducing the number of companies offering disposal options available to waste generators and may cause disposal pricing to increase. Avalon may need to absorb all or a portion of these cost increases depending upon competitive conditions at the time.. 8. Golf memberships and liquor licenses. The Avalon Golf and Country Club operates golf courses and related clubhouses at each of its three facilities. The Avalon Golf and Country Club facilities also offer swimming pools, fitness centers, tennis courts, dining and banquet facilities and spa services. In addition, The Avalon Inn provides guests with a self-contained vacation experience, offering hotel guests golf packages to all of the golf courses of the Avalon Golf and Country Club and allows its guests to utilize the facilities at each of the clubhouses. Members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club also have access to all of the amenities offered by The Avalon Inn. The Avalon Golf and Country Club competes with many public courses and country clubs in the area. Although the golf courses continue to be available to the general public, the primary source of revenues is derived from the members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club. Avalon believes that the combination of its three golf facilities and The Avalon Inn will result in additional memberships in the Avalon Golf and Country Club. The ability to retain current members and attract new members has been an ongoing challenge. Although Avalon was able to increase the number of members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club, as of December 31, 2017, Avalon has not attained its membership goals. There can be no assurance as to when such goals will be attained and when the golf and related operations will ultimately become profitable. Avalon is continually using different marketing strategies to attract new members, such as local television advertising and various membership promotions. A significant decline in members could adversely affect the future financial performance of Avalon.. All three of Avalon’s golf course operations and The Avalon Inn currently hold liquor licenses for their respective facilities. If, for some reason, any one of these facilities were to lose their liquor license, the financial performance of the golf and related operations would be adversely affected.. Government regulations. The federal government and numerous state and local governmental bodies are continuing to consider legislation or regulations to either restrict or impede the disposal and/or transportation of waste. A portion of Avalon’s waste management services revenues is derived from the brokerage of the disposal and/or transportation of out-of-state waste. Any law or regulation restricting or impeding the transportation of waste or the acceptance of out-of-state waste for disposal could have a negative effect on Avalon. Avalon’s waste brokerage and management services may also be affected by the trend toward laws requiring the development of waste reduction and recycling or other programs.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was signed into law. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, could be adversely affected.. Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards. Our implementation of new accounting rules and interpretations or compliance with changes in existing accounting rules could adversely affect our balance sheet or results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods.. Accounting estimates and judgments. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified.. 9. Inflation. Avalon has not entered into any long-term fixed price contracts that could have a material adverse impact upon its financial performance in periods of inflation. In general, management believes that rising costs resulting from price inflation could be passed on to customers; however, Avalon may need to absorb all or a portion of these cost increases depending upon competitive conditions at the time."
