[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto, before making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us and impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the events or developments discussed in the risk factors below could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and in such case, our future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we cannot secure additional business, we may have to raise additional capital or further restructure, or cease, our operations.. We have expended substantial funds on our contract manufacturing business and, historically, on the research and development of pharmaceutical product candidates. As a result, we have historically experienced losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception and, although we have discontinued our research and development segment (as described in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), we expect negative cash flows from operations to continue until we can generate sufficient revenue to generate positive cash flow from operations.. Our ability to fund our operations is dependent on the amount of cash on hand and our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover our operations. At April 30, 2018, we had $42,265,000 in cash and cash equivalents. Although it is difficult to forecast all of our future liquidity requirements, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand combined with the remaining projected cash receipts from manufacturing services under our current backlog (as further discussed above under “Backlog”) and the remaining upfront payment we expect to receive from the sale of our PS-targeting program (as described in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond one year after the date our financial statements are issued without securing any new business, financing capital equipment, or raising additional capital in the equity markets. In addition, in the event a customer timely cancels its commitments prior to our initiation of manufacturing services, we may be required to refund some or all of the amounts paid to us in advance under those canceled commitments, which would have a negative impact on our liquidity, reported backlog and future revenue.. 8. In the event we are unable to secure sufficient business to support our operations, we may need to raise additional funding in the future. Additional funding may include the financing or leasing of capital equipment or raising capital in the equity markets. Our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets to fund our obligations in future periods depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the market demand for our common stock. The market demand or liquidity of our common stock is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, negative economic conditions, adverse market conditions, and adverse financial results. If we are unable to either raise sufficient capital in the equity markets or generate additional revenue, we may need to further restructure, or cease, our operations. In addition, even if we are able to raise additional capital, it may not be at a price or on terms that are favorable to us.. As a result, we have concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that our accompanying consolidated financial statements are issued.. The audit report prepared by our independent registered public accounting firm, with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018, contains an explanatory paragraph referencing our conclusion that substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and absent securing sufficient additional business or raising additional capital, we may be unable to remain a going concern.. In its report accompanying our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph referencing our experienced losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception and our conclusion that substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. We may need to further modify our operation plans in an effort to continue as a going concern. Absent securing sufficient additional business or raising additional capital, which we may be unable to raise on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be unable to remain a going concern.. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize our facility capacity utilization.. We have recently experienced idle manufacturing capacity due primarily to unexpected declines in commitments from existing customers, and we may continue to experience such idle manufacturing capacity until we secure substantial new revenues from existing and/or new customers. Our operating results are significantly influenced by our capacity utilization and, as such, if we are unable to utilize our facilities to capacity, our margins could be adversely affected, and our results of operations and financial condition will continue to be adversely affected. Further, while we continue to expand our manufacturing infrastructure, our revenue volume may be insufficient to ensure the economical operation of any such expanded capacity, in which case our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We have had significant losses, anticipate future losses and may never achieve profitability.. We have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since we began operations in 1981, including net losses of $21,813,000 and $28,159,000 for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As of April 30, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of $559,129,000. In addition, we expect negative cash flows from operations to continue until we can generate sufficient revenue from operations to achieve profitability. Further, if we fail to generate sufficient revenue, we may never achieve profitability.. Because a significant portion of our contract manufacturing revenue comes from a limited number of customers, any decrease in sales to these customers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Contract manufacturing revenue has historically been derived from a small customer base. For the fiscal years ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, we derived approximately 98% of our contract manufacturing revenue from six customers and three customers, respectively, and for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016, we derived approximately 95% of our contract manufacturing revenue from two customers. In addition, typically we have not entered into long-term commitments with these third-party customers because their need for product supply depends on a variety of factors, including the product’s stage of development, the timing of regulatory filings and approvals, the product needs of their collaborators, if applicable, their financial resources and the market demand with respect to commercial products. The loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 9. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our industry is highly regulated. We are required to comply with the regulatory requirements of various local, state, provincial, national and international regulatory bodies having jurisdiction in the countries or localities in which we manufacture products or in which our customers’ products are distributed. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning development, testing, manufacturing processes, equipment and facilities, including compliance with cGMPs, import and export, and product registration and listing, among other things. As a result, most of our facilities are subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as regulatory bodies of other jurisdictions such as the EMA and/or Health Canada, depending on the countries in which our customers market and sell the products we manufacture on their behalf. As we expand our operations and geographic scope, we may be exposed to more complex and new regulatory and administrative requirements and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in which we have little or no experience. It is possible that compliance with new regulatory requirements could impose significant compliance costs on us. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. These regulatory requirements impact many aspects of our operations, including manufacturing, developing, storage, distribution, import and export and record keeping related to customers’ products. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in government refusal to approve (i) facilities for testing or manufacturing products or (ii) products for commercialization. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including:. ·changes to the regulatory approval process, including new data requirements for product candidates in those jurisdictions, including the United States, in which our customers may be seeking approval;. ·that a customer’s product candidate may not be deemed to be safe or effective;. ·the ability of the regulatory agency to provide timely responses as a result of its resource constraints; and. ·that the manufacturing processes or facilities may not meet the applicable requirements.. In addition, if new legislation or regulations are enacted or existing legislation or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we may be required to obtain additional approvals or operate according to different manufacturing or operating standards. This may require a change in our development and manufacturing techniques or additional capital investments in our facilities. Any related costs may be significant. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the future, then we may be subject to warning letters and/or civil or criminal penalties and fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, restrictions on the import and export of our products, debarment, exclusion, disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution and the loss of contracts and resulting revenue losses. Inspections by regulatory authorities that identify any deficiencies could result in remedial actions, production stoppages or facility closure, which would disrupt the manufacturing process and supply of product to our customers. In addition, such failure to comply could expose us to contractual and product liability claims, including claims by customers for reimbursement for lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients (“APIs”) or recall or other corrective actions, the cost of which could be significant.. In addition, products we manufacture must undergo pre-clinical and clinical evaluations relating to product safety and efficacy before they are approved as commercial therapeutic products. The regulatory authorities having jurisdiction in the countries in which we or our customers intend to market their products may delay or put on hold clinical trials or delay approval of a product or determine that the product is not approvable. The FDA or other regulatory agencies can delay approval of a drug if our manufacturing facility, including any newly commissioned facility, is not able to demonstrate compliance with cGMPs, pass other aspects of pre-approval inspections or properly scale up to produce commercial supplies. The FDA and comparable government authorities having jurisdiction in the countries in which we or our customers intend to market their products have the authority to withdraw product approval or suspend manufacture if there are significant problems with raw materials or supplies, quality control and assurance or the product we manufacture is adulterated or misbranded. If our manufacturing facilities and services are not in compliance with FDA and comparable government authorities, we may be unable to obtain or maintain the necessary approvals to continue manufacturing products for our customers, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. The failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for our or our customers’ product candidates could negatively impact our revenue and profitability.. Our contract manufacturing business materially depends upon the regulatory approval of the products we manufacture. As such, any delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of our customers’ product candidates or the failure to maintain regulatory approval for our or our customers’ products could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve of our facilities for the manufacture of a customer product or if it withdraws such approval in the future, our customers may choose to identify alternative manufacturing facilities and/or relationships, which could significantly impact our ability to expand our CDMO capacity and capabilities and achieve profitability.. Our manufacturing services are highly complex, and if we are unable to provide quality and timely services to our customers, our business could suffer.. The manufacturing services we offer are highly complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. A failure of our quality control systems in our facilities could cause problems to arise in connection with facility operations for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, viral contamination, failure to follow specific manufacturing instructions, protocols and standard operating procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors. Such problems could affect production of a single manufacturing run or a series of runs, requiring the destruction of products, or could halt manufacturing operations altogether. In addition, our failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers, which in turn could damage our reputation for quality and service. Any such incident could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug substance, damage to and possibly termination of existing customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other manufacturing runs. With respect to our commercial manufacturing, if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, we may be subject to regulatory actions, including product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil sanctions, including monetary sanctions, and criminal actions. In addition, such issues could subject us to litigation, the cost of which could be significant.. We depend on spending and demand from our customers for our contract manufacturing and development services and any reduction in spending or demand could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The amount that our customers spend on the development and manufacturing of their products or product candidates, particularly the amount our customers choose to spend on outsourcing these services to us, substantially impacts our revenue and profitability. The outcomes of our customers’ research, development and marketing also significantly influence the amount that our customers choose to spend on our services and offerings. Our customers determine the amounts that they will spend on our services based upon, among other things, the clinical and market success of their products, available resources, access to capital and their need to develop new products, which, in turn, depend upon a number of other factors, including their competitors’ research, development and product initiatives and the anticipated market for any new products, as well as clinical and reimbursement scenarios for specific products and therapeutic areas. Further, increasing consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry may impact such spending, particularly in the event that any of our customers choose to develop or acquire integrated manufacturing operations. Any reduction in customer spending on biologics development and related services as a result of these and other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The consumers of the products we manufacture for our customers may significantly influence our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on, and have no control over, consumer demand for the products we manufacture for our customers. Consumer demand for our customers’ products could be adversely affected by, among other things, delays in health regulatory approval, the inability of our customers to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of their products, the loss of patent and other intellectual property rights protection, the emergence of competing or alternative products, including generic drugs, the degree to which private and government payment subsidies for a particular product offset the cost to consumers and changes in the marketing strategies for such products. If the products we manufacture for our customers do not gain market acceptance, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.. 11. We believe that continued changes to the healthcare industry, including ongoing healthcare reform, adverse changes in government or private funding of healthcare products and services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient information or patient access to care, or the delivery, pricing or reimbursement of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to purchase fewer services from us or influence the price that others are willing to pay for our services. Changes in the healthcare industry’s pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices could also significantly reduce our revenue and profitability.. If production volumes of key products that we manufacture for our customers continue to decline, results of operations and financial condition may continue to be adversely affected.. We may be unable to manage our future growth effectively, which could make it difficult to execute our business strategy.. Earlier in fiscal year 2018, we announced our intent to transition to a dedicated CDMO and, in connection with such transition, pursue strategic options to license or divest our research and development assets. As a result of this transition, during the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2017, we reduced our overall workforce as part of a series of strategic actions to reduce costs and better position us to achieve potential profitability. Now that we have completed our transition to a dedicated CDMO, we intend to grow our business operations as demand increases and increase the number of our employees to accommodate such potential growth, which may cause us to experience periods of rapid growth and expansion. This potential future growth could create a strain on our organizational, administrative and operational infrastructure, including manufacturing operations, quality control, technical support and other administrative functions. Our ability to manage our growth properly will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls.. As our commercial operations and sales volume grow, we will need to continue to increase our capacity for manufacturing, customer service, billing and general process improvements and expand our internal quality assurance program, among other things. We may also need to purchase additional equipment, some of which can take several months or more to procure, set up and validate, and increase our manufacturing, maintenance, software and computing capacity to meet increased demand. These increases in scale, expansion of personnel, purchase of equipment or process enhancements may not be successfully implemented.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our customers’ proprietary information, we may be subject to claims.. Many of the formulations used and processes developed by us in manufacturing our customers’ products are subject to trade secret protection, patents or other intellectual property protections owned or licensed by such customer. While we make significant efforts to protect our customers’ proprietary and confidential information, including requiring our employees to enter into agreements protecting such information, if any of our employees breaches the non-disclosure provisions in such agreements, or if our customers make claims that their proprietary information has been disclosed, our reputation may suffer damage and we may become subject to legal proceedings that could require us to incur significant expenses and divert our management’s time, attention and resources.. Our services and our customers’ products may infringe on or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of third parties.. Any claims that our services infringe the rights of third parties, including claims arising from any of our customer engagements, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail in such proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required, among other things, to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use of the infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, license such technology from the third party claiming infringement (which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all) and/or cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing processes or offerings, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 12. In addition, our customers’ products may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement and such claims could materially affect our business if their products cease to be manufactured and they have to discontinue the use of the infringing technology which we may provide. Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete or could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we do not enhance our existing or introduce new service offerings in a timely manner, our offerings may become obsolete or uncompetitive over time, customers may not buy our offerings and our revenue and profitability may decline.. Demand for our manufacturing services may change in ways that we may not anticipate due to evolving industry standards and customer needs that are increasingly sophisticated and varied, as well as the introduction by others of new offerings and technologies that provide alternatives to our offerings. In the event we are unable to offer or enhance our service offerings or expand our manufacturing infrastructure to accommodate requests from our customers and potential customers, our offerings may become obsolete or uncompetitive over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. For example, if we are unable to respond to changes in the nature or extent of the technological or other needs of our customers through enhancing our offerings, our competition may develop offerings that are more competitive than ours and we could find it more difficult to renew or expand existing agreements or obtain new agreements. Potential innovations intended to facilitate enhanced or new offerings generally will require a substantial capital investment before we can determine their commercial viability, and we may not have financial resources sufficient to fund all desired innovations. Even if we succeed in creating enhanced or new offerings, however, they may still fail to result in commercially successful offerings or may not produce revenue in excess of our costs of development, and they may be rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of offerings embodying new technologies or features. Finally, the marketplace may not accept our innovations due to, among other things, existing patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance and/or uncertainty over market access or government or third-party reimbursement.. We operate in a highly competitive market and competition may adversely affect our business.. We operate in a market that is highly competitive. Our competition in the contract manufacturing market includes full-service contract manufacturers and large pharmaceutical companies offering third-party manufacturing services to fill their excess capacity. We may also compete with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical companies that choose to source their product offerings internally. Additionally, several large pharmaceutical companies have recently sought to divest portions of their manufacturing capacity, and any such divested businesses may compete with us in the future. In addition, most of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or other resources than we do. Moreover, additional competition may emerge, particularly in lower-cost jurisdictions such as India and China, which could, among other things, result in a decrease in the fees paid for our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third parties to supply most of the necessary raw materials and supplies for the products we manufacture on behalf of our customers and our inability to obtain such raw materials or supplies may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations require various raw materials, including proprietary media, resins, buffers, filters, in addition to numerous additional raw materials supplied primarily by third parties. We or our customers specify the raw materials and other items required to manufacture their product and, in some cases, specify the suppliers from whom we must purchase these raw materials. In certain instances, the raw materials and other items can only be supplied by a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a single source, or in limited quantities. If third-party suppliers do not supply raw materials or other items on a timely basis, it may cause a manufacturing run to be delayed or canceled which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our single source suppliers. If we experience difficulties acquiring sufficient quantities of required materials or products from our existing suppliers, or if our suppliers are found to be non-compliant with the FDA’s quality system regulation, cGMPs or other applicable laws or regulations, we would be required to find alternative suppliers. If our primary suppliers become unable or unwilling to perform, any resulting delays or interruptions in the supply of raw materials required to support our manufacturing of cGMP pharmaceutical-grade products would ultimately delay our manufacture of products for our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Furthermore, third-party suppliers may fail to provide us with raw materials and other items that meet the qualifications and specifications required by us or our customers. If third-party suppliers are not able to provide us with raw materials that meet our or our customers’ specifications on a timely basis, we may be unable to manufacture their product or it could prevent us from delivering products to our customers within required timeframes. Any such delay in delivering our products may create liability for us to our customers for breach of contract or cause us to experience order cancellations and loss of customers. In the event that we manufacture products with inferior quality components and raw materials, we may become subject to product liability claims caused by defective raw materials or components from a third-party supplier or from a customer, or our customer may be required to recall its products from the market.. 13. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages.. Our contract manufacturing operations involve, and our prior activities with respect to our recently sold research and development assets involved, the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials or chemicals. As a result of any such contamination or injury, we may incur liability or local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our contract manufacturing operations, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Potential product liability claims, errors and omissions claims in connection with services we perform and potential liability under indemnification agreements between us and our officers and directors could adversely affect us.. We manufacture products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose us to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. We seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with customers (the scope of which may vary by customer, and the performances of which are not secured) and insurance maintained by us and our customers. We could be materially adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liabilities exceed the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We currently maintain product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.. We also indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is serving at our request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited. Although we have a director and officer insurance policy that covers a portion of any potential exposure, we could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above such insurance limits.. Any claims beyond our insurance coverage limits, or that are otherwise not covered by our insurance, may result in substantial costs and a reduction in our available capital resources.. We maintain property insurance, employer’s liability insurance, product liability insurance, general liability insurance, business interruption insurance, and directors and officers’ liability insurance, among others. Although we maintain what we believe to be adequate insurance coverage, potential claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Generally, we would be at risk for the loss of inventory that is not within customer specifications. These amounts could be significant. In addition, in the future we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage or we may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage.. We depend on key personnel and the loss of key personnel could harm our business and results of operations.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical employees as well as a number of key executives. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain key personnel, or to attract and retain additional qualified employees. We do not maintain key-man or similar policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business.. 14. We have federal and state net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards which, if we were to become profitable, could be used to offset/defer federal and state income taxes. Our ability to use such carry forwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations related to changes in ownership of our stock.. As of April 30, 2018, we had federal and state NOL carry forwards of approximately $434 million and $273 million, respectively, expiring from 2019 to 2037. These NOL carry forwards could potentially be used to offset certain future federal and state income tax liabilities. However, utilization of NOL carry forwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state provisions due to ownership changes that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. We performed a detailed analysis of our NOL carry forwards through April 30, 2018 and it was determined that no change in ownership had occurred. However, ownership changes occurring subsequent to April 30, 2018 may impact the utilization of our NOL carry forwards and other tax attributes. Any limitation may result in expiration of a portion of the carry forwards before utilization. If we were not able to utilize our carry forwards, we would be required to use our cash resources to pay taxes that would otherwise have been offset, thereby reducing our liquidity.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act(the “Tax Act”) was signed into law, significantly reforming the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, effectuates the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business. While we continue to evaluate the effect of the Tax Act on our business, including our projection of minimal cash taxes and our net operating losses, the impact of such tax reform could have a negative impact on our financial results and the market price of our common stock.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages and surges, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we have limited insurance or are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our manufacturing operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our ability to obtain raw materials, components and supplies for the manufacture, as well as the services of outside testing laboratories, of our third party customers’ products, for which we act as a contract manufacturer, could be disrupted, if the operations of these suppliers and/or labs is affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters and manufacturing facility is located in California near major earthquake faults. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster.. We may face additional liabilities associated with our prior research and development activities.. We recently sold the majority of our research and development assets, including our development-stage immunotherapy product, bavituximab. As a result, we are no longer pursuing our prior research and development activities, including the clinical development associated therewith. We may still face unknown liabilities associated with these prior activities. For example, in the course of our prior development of our product candidate, bavituximab, we contracted with third parties to conduct a series of clinical trials and although we maintain product liability insurance for clinical studies in the amount of $10,000,000 per occurrence or $10,000,000 in the aggregate on a claims-made basis, as well as country-specific coverage where required for clinical sites located in foreign countries, our coverage may not be adequate in the event we face a product liability claim due to an adverse effect resulting from any of such trials. Any liabilities arising from our prior research and development activities that are not covered by our insurance coverage could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations.. 15. We may be subject to various litigation claims and legal proceedings.. We, as well as certain of our directors and officers, may be subject to claims or lawsuits during the ordinary course of business. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits may result in significant legal fees and expenses and could divert management’s time and other resources. If the claims contained in these lawsuits are successfully asserted against us, we could be liable for damages and be required to alter or cease certain of our business practices. Any of these outcomes could cause our business, financial performance and cash position to be negatively impacted.. We have become increasingly dependent on information technology and any breakdown, interruption or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We are increasingly dependent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure in connection with the conduct of our business. We must constantly update our information technology infrastructure and our various current information technology systems throughout the organization may not continue to meet our current and future business needs. Furthermore, modification, upgrade or replacement of such systems may be costly. In addition, due to the size and complexity of these systems, any breakdown, interruption, corruption or unauthorized access to or cyber-attack on these systems could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. While we attempt to take appropriate security and cyber-security measures to protect our data and information technology systems and to prevent such breakdowns and unauthorized breaches and cyber-attacks, these measures may not be successful and these breakdowns and breaches in, or attacks on, our systems and data may not be prevented. Such breakdowns, breaches or attacks may cause business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline, and we may suffer financial damage or other loss, including fines or criminal penalties because of lost or misappropriated information.. Our governance documents and state law provide certain anti-takeover measures which will discourage a third party from seeking to acquire us unless approved by the Board of Directors.. We have a rights plan that is designed to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to our stockholders as determined by our board of directors. Under the plan, the acquisition of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock by any person or group, unless approved by our board of directors, will trigger the right of our stockholders (other than the acquirer of 15% or more of our common stock) to acquire additional shares of our common stock, and, in certain cases, the stock of the potential acquirer, at a 50% discount to market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquirer. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain additional anti-takeover protective devices. For example,. ·no stockholder action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote; solicitations by consent are thus prohibited;. ·special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors; and. ·our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences, and issue shares, of preferred stock. An issuance of preferred stock with dividend and liquidation rights senior to the common stock and convertible into a large number of shares of common stock could prevent a potential acquirer from gaining effective economic or voting control.. Further, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder.. 16. Although we believe these provisions and our rights plan collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Our bylaws, as amended, provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our bylaws, as amended, provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, any action to interpret, apply, enforce, or determine the validity of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. A significant number of shares of our common stock are issuable pursuant to outstanding options and convertible securities, and we may issue additional shares of common stock in the future. Sales or conversions of these shares will dilute the interests of other security holders and may depress the price of our common stock.. As of April 30, 2018, 5,316,526 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under outstanding option grants and available for issuance under our stock incentive plans and we had outstanding warrants to purchase up to 39,040 shares of common stock. Additionally, as of April 30, 2018, there were 1,271,409 shares of common stock reserved for and available for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) and up to 6,826,435 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series E Preferred Stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock upon the exercise or conversion, as applicable, of any of the foregoing securities, or the perception that such issuances may occur, would have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our highly volatile stock price may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock has generally been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. For instance, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.97 to $10.50 per share over the last three fiscal years ended April 30, 2018 (as adjusted to reflect the 1-for-7 reverse stock split of our issued and outstanding common stock that took effect on July 10, 2017).. 17. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be significantly impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to:. ·     our loss of a significant customer;      ·     uncertainties about our ability to continue to fund our operations beyond the next twelve months;      ·     significant changes in our financial results or that of our competitors, including our ability to continue as a going concern;      ·     our ability to meet revenue projections;      ·     the offering and sale of shares of our common stock, either sold at market prices or at a discount under an equity transaction;      ·     significant changes in our capital structure;      ·     published reports by securities analysts;      ·     announcements of partnering transactions, licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the development, sale or use of our technologies or competitive technologies;      ·     regulatory developments, including possible delays, and product safety concerns;      ·     outcomes of significant litigation, disputes and other legal or regulatory proceedings;      ·     general stock trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry sectors;      ·     public concerns as to the safety and effectiveness of the products we manufacture;      ·     economic trends and other external factors, including but not limited to, interest rate fluctuations, economic recession, inflation, foreign market trends, national crisis, and disasters; and      ·     healthcare reimbursement reform and cost-containment measures implemented by government agencies.. These and other external factors have caused and may continue to cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock, and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings, if any, for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about us, or if they issue adverse opinions about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business will influence the market for our common stock. If one or more analysts who cover us issues an adverse opinion about us, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases research coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Further, if we fail to meet the market expectations of analysts who follow our stock, our stock price likely would decline.. 18. Additional Risks Related to the Ownership of our Series E Preferred Stock. We may not be able to pay dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock.. We are incorporated in Delaware and governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law. Delaware law allows a corporation to pay dividends only out of surplus, as determined under Delaware law, or if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend was declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Under Delaware law, however, we cannot pay dividends out of net profits if, after we pay the dividend, our capital would be less than the capital represented by the outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets. In addition, payment of our dividends depends upon our financial condition and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our Series E Preferred Stock.. The market price of the Series E Preferred Stock could be substantially affected by various factors.. The market price of the Series E Preferred Stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including:. ·prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series E Preferred Stock;. ·trading prices of common and preferred equity securities issued by other biopharmaceutical companies;. ·the annual yield from distributions on the Series E Preferred Stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments;. ·announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors;. ·publicity regarding actual or potential company-sponsored clinical trial and investigator-sponsored clinical trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors;. ·announcements of licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, and any other transaction that involves the development, sale or use of our technologies;. ·regulatory developments and product safety concerns;. ·general economic and financial market conditions;. ·government action or regulation;. ·significant changes in the financial condition, performance and prospects of us and our competitors;. ·changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors in our industry;. ·our issuance of additional preferred equity or debt securities; and. ·actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results of us and our competitors.. As a result of these and other factors, holders of our Series E Preferred Stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market price of the Series E Preferred Stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects."
