[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our publicly-traded securities and all of the other information in our 2017 Annual Report. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Us and Our Business. Our success depends on our ability to improve our financial and operational performance and execute fully our global business strategy.. Our ability to improve our financial and operational performance and implement the key initiatives of our global business strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to:. • implement our Transformation Plan, stabilization strategies, cost savings initiatives, restructuring and other initiatives, and achieve anticipated savings and benefits from such programs and initiatives;. • reverse declines in our market share and strengthen our brand image;. • implement appropriate pricing strategies and product mix that are more aligned with the preferences of local markets and achieve anticipated benefits from these strategies;. • reduce costs and effectively manage our cost structure, particularly selling, general and administrative (\"SG&A\") expenses;. • improve our business in the markets where we operate, including through improving field health;. • execute investments in information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure and realize efficiencies across our supply chain, marketing processes, sales model and organizational structure;. • implement and continue to innovate our Internet platform, technology strategies and customer service initiatives, including our ability to offer a more compelling social selling experience and the roll-out of e-commerce in certain markets;. • effectively manage our outsourcing activities;. • improve our marketing and advertising, including our brochures and our social media presence;. • improve working capital, effectively manage inventory and implement initiatives to reduce inventory levels, including the potential impact on cash flows and obsolescence;. 7. • secure financing at attractive rates, maintain appropriate capital investment, capital structure and cash flow levels and implement cash management, tax, foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies;. • reverse declines in Active Representatives and Representative satisfaction by successfully reducing campaign complexity and enhancing our sales leadership program, the Representative experience and earnings potential, along with improving our brand image;. • increase the productivity of Representatives through successful implementation of segmentation, field activation programs and technology tools and enablers and other investments in the direct-selling channel;. • improve management of our businesses in developing markets, including improving local IT resources and management of local supply chains;. • increase the number of consumers served per Representative and their engagement online, as well as to reach new consumers through a combination of new brands, new businesses, new channels and pursuit of strategic opportunities such as joint ventures and alliances with other companies;. • comply with certain covenants in our revolving credit facility, which depends on our business results (including the impact of any adverse foreign exchange movements and significant restructuring charges), or undertake other alternatives to avoid noncompliance, such as obtaining additional amendments to our revolving credit facility or repurchasing certain debt, and address the impact any non-compliance with such covenants may have on our ability to secure financing with favorable terms; and. • estimate and achieve any financial projections concerning, for example, customer demand, future revenue, profit, cash flow, and operating margin increases and maintain an effective internal control environment as a result of any challenges associated with the implementation of our various plans, strategies and initiatives.. There can be no assurance if and when any of these initiatives will be successfully and fully executed or completed.. We may experience financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs in completing our Transformation Plan and any other restructuring and cost-savings initiatives, including achieving any anticipated savings and benefits of these initiatives.. In January 2016, we initiated a Transformation Plan (the \"Transformation Plan\"), which included cost reduction efforts to continue to improve our cost structure and to enable us to reinvest in growth. Under this plan, we had targeted pre-tax annualized cost savings of approximately $350 million after three years, with an estimated $200 million from supply chain reductions and an estimated $150 million from other cost reductions, which were expected to be achieved through restructuring actions, as well as other cost-savings strategies that will not result in restructuring charges. We have reinvested and continue to plan to reinvest a portion of these cost savings in growth initiatives, including media, social selling and information technology systems that will help us modernize our business. We had initiated the Transformation Plan in an attempt to enable us to achieve our long-term goals of mid-single-digit constant-dollar revenue growth and low double-digit operating margin.. As we work to right-size our cost structure, we may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from one or more of the various restructuring and cost-savings initiatives we may undertake as part of these efforts in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. Other events and circumstances, such as financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs, including the impact of foreign currency and inflationary pressures, may occur which could result in our not realizing our targets or in offsetting the financial benefits of reaching those targets. If we are unable to realize these savings or benefits, or otherwise fail to invest in the growth initiatives, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any plans to invest these savings and benefits ahead of future growth means that such costs will be incurred whether or not we realize these savings and benefits. We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with these initiatives, and the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from such initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve revenue, margins and net income or to achieve profitable growth.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve revenue, margins and net income, or to achieve profitable growth in the future, particularly in our largest markets and developing and emerging markets, such as Brazil, Mexico and Russia. Our revenue in 2017 was $5,715.6 million, compared with $5,717.7 million in 2016 and $6,160.5 million in 2015. Improving revenue, margins and net income and achieving profitable growth will depend on our ability to improve financial and operational performance and execute our global business strategy, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these goals. Our ability to improve could be hindered by competing business priorities and projects.. To improve revenue, margins and net income and to achieve profitable growth, we also need to successfully implement certain initiatives, including our Transformation Plan, and there can no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our achievement of. 8. profitable growth is also subject to the strengths and weaknesses of our individual international markets, which are or may be impacted by global economic conditions. We cannot assure that our broad-based geographic portfolio will be able to withstand an economic downturn, recession, cost or wage inflation, commodity cost pressures, economic or political instability (including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates), competitive pressures or other market pressures in one or more particular regions.. Failure to improve revenue, margins and net income and to achieve profitable growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business is conducted primarily in one channel, direct selling.. Our business is conducted primarily in the direct-selling channel. Sales are made to the ultimate consumer principally through direct selling by Representatives, who are independent contractors and not our employees. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 6 million active Representatives. There is a high rate of turnover among Representatives, which is a common characteristic of the direct-selling business. In order to reverse losses of Representatives and grow our business in the future, we need to recruit, retain and service Representatives on a continuing basis. Among other things, we need to create attractive Representative earning opportunities and transform the value chain, restore field health and sales force effectiveness, successfully implement other initiatives in the direct-selling channel, successfully execute our digital strategy, including e-commerce, improve our brochure and product offerings and improve our marketing and advertising. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our direct-selling model contains an inherent risk of bad debt associated with providing Representatives with credit, which is exacerbated if the financial condition of the Representatives deteriorates. Additionally, consumer purchasing habits, including reducing purchases of beauty and related products generally, or reducing purchases from Representatives through direct selling by buying beauty and related products in other channels such as retail, could reduce our sales, impact our ability to execute our global business strategy or have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, if we lose market share in the direct-selling channel, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if any government or regulatory body such as Brazil or the European Union, bans or severely restricts our business methods or operational/commercial model of direct selling, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to financial risks as a result of our international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of foreign currency restrictions.. We operate globally, through operations in various locations around the world, and derive all of our consolidated revenue from operations outside of the United States (\"U.S.\").. One risk associated with our international operations is that the functional currency for most of our international operations is their local currency. The primary foreign currencies for which we have significant exposures include the Argentine peso, Brazilian real, British pound, Chilean peso, Colombian peso, the euro, Mexican peso, Peruvian new sol, Philippine peso, Polish zloty, Romanian leu, Russian ruble, South African rand, Turkish lira and Ukrainian hryvnia. As the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to our foreign currencies, our revenues and profits are reduced when translated into U.S. dollars and our margins may be negatively impacted by country mix if our higher margin markets experience significant devaluation. In addition, our costs are more weighted to U.S. dollars while our sales are denominated in local currencies. Although we typically work to mitigate this negative foreign currency transaction impact through price increases and further actions to reduce costs, and by shifting costs to markets in which we generate revenue, we may not be able to fully offset the impact, if at all. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage these various foreign currency impacts and there can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.. Another risk associated with our international operations is the possibility that a foreign government may tax or impose foreign currency remittance restrictions. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, we may not be able to immediately repatriate cash. If this should occur, or if the exchange rates devalue, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.. Inflation is another risk associated with our international operations. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. High rates of inflation or the related devaluation of foreign currency may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance that countries in which we operate, such as Argentina, will not become highly inflationary and that our revenue, operating profit and net income will not be adversely impacted as a result.. 9. Our ability to improve our financial performance depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences.. Our ability to improve our financial performance depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and related products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. Consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. In addition, certain market trends may be short-lived.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and respond to trends timely and effectively in the market for beauty and related products and changing consumer demands and improve our financial results.. Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for our products, including as a result of changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences or incorrect forecasting of market demand, could result in us carrying inventory that cannot be sold at anticipated prices or increased product returns by the Representatives. Failure to maintain proper inventory levels or increased product returns by the Representatives could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Our success depends, in part, on our key personnel.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, attract, train, develop and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense and our ability to hire, attract and retain them depends on our ability to provide competitive compensation. We may not be able to attract, assimilate, develop or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, including the execution of our global business strategy. For example, there have been many changes to the Company's senior management, including a new chief executive officer in 2018, a new chief financial officer in 2015 and 2017 and other significant changes to senior management during 2017. Such turnover creates a risk of business processes not being sustained if the turnover occurs with inadequate knowledge transfer. Any failure by our management team to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This risk may be exacerbated by the uncertainties associated with the implementation of our Transformation Plan and any other stabilization strategies and restructuring and cost-savings initiatives we undertake from time to time.. A general economic downturn, a recession globally or in one or more of our geographic regions or markets or sudden disruption in business conditions or other challenges may adversely affect our business, our access to liquidity and capital, and our credit ratings.. Current global macro-economic instability or a further downturn in the economies in which we sell our products, including any recession in one or more of our geographic regions or markets could adversely affect our business, our access to liquidity and capital, and our credit ratings. Economic events, including high unemployment levels and recession, as well as the tightening of credit markets, have resulted in challenges to our business and a heightened concern regarding further deterioration globally. In addition, as mentioned above, our business is conducted primarily in the direct-selling channel. We could experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by such economic, operational or business challenges. Any or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources and credit ratings, including our ability to access short-term financing, raise additional capital, reduce flexibility with respect to working capital, and maintain credit lines and offshore cash balances.. Consumer spending is also generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as beauty and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. We may face continued economic challenges in 2018 because customers may continue to have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, bankruptcies, and reduced access to credit, among other things.. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions and consumer spending may result from acts of terror, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, and pandemic situations or large-scale power outages, none of which are under our control.. Our credit ratings were downgraded during the past several years, which could limit our access to financing, affect the market price of our financing and increase financing costs. A further downgrade in our credit ratings may adversely affect our access to liquidity.. Nationally recognized credit rating organizations have issued credit ratings relating to our long-term debt. Our credit ratings have been downgraded at various points during the past several years, including in 2017. Our long-term credit ratings are: Moody's ratings of Stable Outlook with B1 for corporate family debt, B3 for senior unsecured debt, and Ba1 for our Senior Secured Notes; S&P ratings of Stable Outlook with B for corporate family debt and senior unsecured debt and BB- for our. 10. Senior Secured Notes; and Fitch rating of Negative Outlook with B+, each of which are below investment grade. We do not believe these long-term credit ratings will have a material impact on our near-term liquidity. However, any rating agency reviews could result in a change in outlook or downgrade, which could further limit our access to new financing, particularly short-term financing, reduce our flexibility with respect to working capital needs, affect the market price of some or all of our outstanding debt securities, and likely result in an increase in financing costs, and less favorable covenants and financial terms under our financing arrangements. A further change in outlook or downgrade of our credit ratings may increase some of these risks and limit our access to such short-term financing in the future on favorable terms, if at all. See Note 7, Debt and Other Financing on pages F-22 through F-25 of our 2017 Annual Report for details about the terms of our existing debt and other financing arrangements.. Our indebtedness and any future inability to meet any of our obligations under our indebtedness, could adversely affect us by reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.9 billion of indebtedness outstanding. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility and our Senior Secured Notes (each, as described below), which would increase our total indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings and other financing may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our current and future financial obligations or our other liquidity needs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Our indebtedness could have material negative consequences on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, including the following:. • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing sufficient to fund growth, such as working capital and capital expenditures requirements or to meet other cash requirements, in particular during periods in which credit markets are weak;. • a further downgrade in our credit ratings, as discussed above;. • a limitation on our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the beauty industry;. • the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with less debt or debt with more favorable terms than us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources and withstand economic downturns;. • limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies or ability to execute restructuring as necessary; and. • limitations on our ability to invest in recruiting, retaining and servicing the Representatives.. Our revolving credit facility and our Senior Secured Notes are secured by first-priority liens on and security interests in substantially all of the assets of Avon International Operations, Inc. (\"AIO,\" a wholly-owned domestic subsidiary) and the subsidiary guarantors and by certain assets of the Company, in each case, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens. Both our revolving credit facility and our Senior Secured Notes contain customary covenants, including, among other things, limits on the ability of the Company, AIO or any restricted subsidiary to, subject to certain exceptions, incur liens, incur debt, make restricted payments, make investments or, with respect to certain entities, merge, consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. Our revolving credit facility also contains a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total leverage ratio. If we are unable to comply with these ratios as a result of our business results (including the impact of any adverse foreign exchange movements and significant restructuring charges), we would be limited in our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility which could, as a result, restrict our operational flexibility. In addition, we could have difficulty undertaking other alternatives to avoid noncompliance, such as obtaining necessary waivers from compliance with, or necessary amendments to, the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility and our Senior Secured Notes or repurchasing certain debt, and we could have difficulty addressing the impact any non-compliance with these covenants may have on our ability to secure financing with favorable terms.. Our ability to conduct business in our international markets may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks.. Our ability to achieve growth in our international markets, and to improve operations in our existing international markets, is exposed to various risks, including:. • the possibility that a foreign government might ban, halt or severely restrict our business, including our primary method of direct selling;. • the possibility that local civil unrest, economic or political instability, bureaucratic delays, changes in macro-economic conditions, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships (including any sanctions, restrictions and other responses such as those related to Russia and Ukraine) or other uncertainties might disrupt our operations in an international market;. • the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate;. 11. • the adoption of new U.S. or foreign tax legislation including the newly enacted U.S. federal income tax law discussed in detail below or exposure to additional tax liabilities, including exposure to tax assessments without prior notice or the opportunity to review the basis for any such assessments in certain jurisdictions;. • the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on the Representatives, as direct sellers, or on Avon, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets, or additional taxes on our products, including in Brazil;. • the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of the Representatives as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on the Representatives; and. • those associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data.. We are also subject to the adoption, interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies abroad and in the U.S. (including on federal, state and local levels) of other laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, competition, manufacturing, license and permit requirements, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, anti-corruption laws, environmental laws, records and information management, tariffs and taxes, laws relating to the sourcing of \"conflict minerals,\" health care reform requirements such as those required by the Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act, and regulation of our brochures, product claims or ingredients, which may require us to adjust our operations and systems in certain markets where we do business.. For example, from time to time, local governments and others question the legal status of Representatives or impose burdens inconsistent with the Representative's status as independent contractors, often in regard to possible coverage under social benefit laws that would require us (and, in most instances, the Representatives) to make regular contributions to government social benefit funds.. If we are unable to address these matters in a satisfactory manner, or adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements, our business, costs and/or reputation may be adversely affected. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business in the future.. Our business is subject to a number of foreign laws and regulations in various jurisdictions governing data privacy and security.. We collect, use and store personal data of our employees, Representatives, customers and other third parties in the ordinary course of business, and we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy and security laws and regulations, including with respect to the collection, storage, use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. In particular, the European Union (\"EU\") has adopted strict data privacy regulations. Following recent developments such as the European Court of Justice's 2015 ruling that the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S. under the EU/U.S. Safe Harbor was an invalid mechanism of personal data transfer, the adoption of the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield as a replacement for the Safe Harbor, and the upcoming effectiveness of the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") in May 2018, along with the proposed Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (the \"ePrivacy Regulation\"), also on the horizon, data privacy and security compliance in the EU are increasingly complex and challenging. The GDPR in particular has broad extraterritorial effect and imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with significant penalties for non-compliance. In general, the GDPR and ePrivacy Regulation, and other local privacy laws, could also require adaptation of our technologies or practices to satisfy local privacy requirements and standards. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines, penalties or orders to cease, delay or modify collection, use or transfers of personal data. That or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market or adversely affect our business.. The scope of data privacy and security regulations continues to evolve, and we believe that the adoption of increasingly restrictive regulations in this area may be likely within the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with data privacy and security restrictions could increase the cost of our operations and failure to comply with such restrictions could subject us to criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties.. A failure, disruption, cyberattack or other breach in the security of an IT system or infrastructure that we utilize could adversely affect our business and reputation and increase our costs.. We employ IT systems to support our business, including systems to support financial reporting, web-based tools, an enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system, and internal communication and data transfer networks. We also employ IT systems to support Representatives in our markets, including electronic order collection, invoicing systems, shipping and box packing, social media tools, mobile applications and on-line training. We have e-commerce and Internet sites, including business-to-. 12. business websites to support Representatives. We use third-party service providers in many instances to provide or support these IT systems. Over the last several years, we have undertaken initiatives to increase our reliance on IT systems which has resulted in the outsourcing of certain services and functions, such as global human resources IT systems, call center support, Representative support services and other IT processes. Our IT systems and infrastructure, as well as the systems, infrastructure and services of those of third parties, are integral to our performance.. Any of our IT systems and infrastructure, or those of our third-party service providers, may be susceptible to outages, disruptions, destruction or corruption due to the complex landscape of localized applications and architectures as well as incidents related to legacy or unintegrated systems. These IT systems and infrastructure also may be susceptible to cybersecurity breaches, attacks, break-ins, including ransomware and phishing attacks, data corruption, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events beyond our control. We rely on our employees, Representatives and third parties in our day-to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human error or malfeasance or failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach of third-party systems or infrastructure, expose us to risk. Furthermore, our ability to protect and monitor the practices of our third-party service providers is more limited than our ability to protect and monitor our own IT systems and infrastructure.. Our IT systems, or those of our third-party service providers may be accessed by unauthorized users such as cyber criminals as a result of a failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach, exposing us to risk. As techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, a failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach may go undetected for a long period of time. A failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach of our IT systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the theft, transfer, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of Company, employee, Representative, customer, vendor, or other third-party data, including sensitive or confidential data, personal information and intellectual property. For example, the Company uses a newswire service that has been subject to the hacking of not-yet-issued press releases by hackers in order to trade on securities using the information contained in such press releases.. We are investing in industry-standard solutions and protections and monitoring practices of our data and IT systems and infrastructure to reduce these risks and we continue to monitor our IT systems and infrastructure on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. We have also deployed additional employee security training and updated security policies for the Company and its third-party service providers. Such efforts and investments are costly, and as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. As a company that operates globally, we could also be impacted by commercial agreements between us and processing organizations, existing and proposed laws and regulations, and government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection.. Despite our efforts, our and our third-party service providers' data, IT systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable. There can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent a failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach of our or our third-party service providers' IT systems or infrastructure, or that we will detect and appropriately respond if there is such a failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach. Our IT databases and systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to ransomware, denial of service and phishing attacks, none of which has been material to the Company to date. Any such failure, disruption, cyberattack or other security breach could adversely affect our business including our ability to expand our business, cause damage to our reputation, result in increased costs to address internal data, security, and personnel issues, and result in violations of applicable privacy laws and other laws and external financial obligations such as governmental fines, penalties, or regulatory proceedings, remediation efforts such as breach notification and identity theft monitoring, and third-party private litigation with potentially significant costs. In addition, it could result in deterioration in our employees', Representatives', customers', or vendors' confidence in us, which could cause them to discontinue doing business with us or result in other competitive disadvantages. In addition, there may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade, modernize, and standardize our IT systems globally.. We face intense competition and can make no assurances about our ability to overcome our competitive challenges.. We face intense competition from competing products in each of our lines of business in the markets we operate. We compete against products sold to consumers in a number of distribution methods, including direct selling, through the Internet, and through mass market retail and prestige retail channels. We also face increasing direct-selling and retail competition in our developing and emerging markets, particularly Brazil and Russia.. Within the direct-selling channel, we often compete on country-by-country basis with our direct-selling competitors. There are a number of direct-selling companies that sell product lines similar to ours, some of which have worldwide operations and compete with us globally. Unlike a typical consumer packaged goods (\"CPG\") company which operates within a broad-based consumer pool, direct sellers compete for representative or entrepreneurial talent by providing a more competitive earnings opportunity or \"better deal\" than that offered by the competition. Providing a compelling earnings opportunity for the. 13. Representatives is as critical as developing and marketing new and innovative products. Therefore, in contrast to typical CPG companies, we must first compete for a limited pool of Representatives before we reach the ultimate consumer.. Representatives are attracted to a direct seller by competitive earnings opportunities, often through what are commonly known as \"field incentives\" in the direct-selling industry. Competitors devote substantial effort to finding out the effectiveness of such incentives so that they can invest in incentives that are the most cost-effective or produce the better payback. As one of the largest and oldest beauty direct sellers globally, Avon's business model and strategies are often highly sought after, particularly by smaller and more nimble competitors who seek to capitalize on our investment and experience. As a result, we are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of Representatives from other direct-selling or network marketing organizations as well as significant competition from other non-direct selling earnings opportunities for which our existing Representatives or potential Representatives could avail themselves. It is therefore continually necessary to innovate and enhance our direct-selling and service model as well as to recruit and retain new Representatives. If we are unable to do so, our business will be adversely affected.. Within the broader CPG industry, we principally compete against large and well-known cosmetics (color), fragrance and skincare companies that manufacture and sell broad product lines through various types of retail establishments and other channels, including through the Internet. In addition, we compete against many other companies that manufacture and sell more narrow beauty product lines sold through retail establishments and other channels, including through the Internet. This industry is highly competitive, and some of our principal competitors in the CPG industry are larger than we are and have greater resources than we do. Competitive activities on their part could cause our sales to suffer. We also have many highly competitive global branded and private label competitors in the accessories, apparel, housewares, and gift and decorative products industries, including retail establishments, principally department stores, mass merchandisers, gift shops and specialty retailers. Our principal competition in the highly competitive fashion jewelry industry consists of a few large companies and many small companies that sell fashion jewelry through department stores, mass merchandisers, specialty retailers and e-commerce.. The number of competitors and degree of competition that we face in the beauty and related products industry varies widely from country to country. If our advertising, promotional, merchandising or other marketing strategies are not successful, if we are unable to improve our product mix and offer new products that represent technological breakthroughs and are aligned with local preferences, if we do not successfully manage the timing of new product introductions or the profitability of these efforts, if we are unable to improve the Representative experience, or if for other reasons the Representatives or end customers perceive competitors' products as having greater appeal, then our sales, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected.. Third-party suppliers provide, among other things, the raw materials required for our Beauty products, and the loss of these suppliers, a supplier's inability to supply a raw material or a finished product or a disruption or interruption in the supply chain may adversely affect our business.. We manufacture and package the majority of our Beauty products, which are formulated and designed by our staff of chemists, designers and artists. Raw materials, consisting chiefly of essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components required for our Beauty products are purchased from a range of third-party suppliers. The remainder of our Beauty products and all of our Fashion & Home products are purchased from various third-party manufacturers. Our products are affected by the cost and availability of materials such as glass, plastics, chemicals and fabrics. For the vast majority of items we have more than one source of supply available. We believe that we can continue to obtain sufficient raw materials and supplies to manufacture and produce our Beauty products for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we design the brochures that are used by the Representatives to sell our products. The brochures are then produced on our behalf by a range of printing suppliers.. The loss of any one supplier would not have a material impact on our ability to source raw materials for the majority of our Beauty products or source products for the remainder of our Beauty products and all of our Fashion & Home products or paper for the brochures. This risk may be exacerbated by our globally-coordinated purchasing strategy, which leverages volumes. Regulatory action, such as restrictions on importation, may also disrupt or interrupt our supply chain. Furthermore, increases in the costs of raw materials or other commodities may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. In addition, if our suppliers fail to use ethical business practices and comply with applicable laws and regulations, such as any child labor laws, our reputation could be harmed due to negative publicity.. The recently enacted comprehensive U.S. tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including but not limited to, a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, a limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), a one-time tax on offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether the funds are physically repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over. 14. time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, it is unclear how certain provisions of the new federal tax law (including provisions aimed at taxing foreign earnings at a minimum level) will be applied absent further legislative clarification and guidance. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly-enacted federal tax law. These uncertainties and the ultimate interpretation of the federal provisions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our ability to utilize our foreign tax and other U.S. credits to offset our future taxable income may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $968 million of foreign tax and other credits available to offset future income for U.S. federal tax purposes. Our ability to utilize such credits to offset future income could be limited, however, if the Company undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in ownership of our stock by 5% shareholders (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. If the 50 percentage points are exceeded, Section 382 establishes an annual limitation on the amount of deferred tax assets attributable to previously incurred credits that may be used to offset taxable income in future years. A number of complex rules apply in calculating this limitation, and any such limitation would depend in part on the market value of the Company at the time of the ownership change and prevailing interest rates at the time of calculation. As a result, the magnitude of any potential limitation on the use of our deferred tax assets and the effect of such limitation on the Company if an ownership change were to occur is difficult to assess. However, if all or a portion of our deferred tax assets were to become subject to this limitation, our tax liability could increase significantly and our future results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. We currently believe an ownership change has not occurred. However, in recent periods, we have experienced fluctuations in the market price of our stock and changes in ownership by our 5% shareholders. In addition, the issuance and sale of perpetual convertible preferred stock to Cerberus Investor (as defined below) resulted in an increase in our cumulative ownership change by our 5% shareholders.. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance, assumptions relating to pension costs or required legal changes in pension funding rules may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.. Our funding policy for pension plans is to meet the minimum required contributions under applicable law and accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, are expected to approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, including equity and debt securities and derivative instruments, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate could result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected rate of return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost. Please see \"Critical Accounting Estimates - Pension and Postretirement Expense\" within MD&A on pages 32 through 33 and Note 13, Employee Benefit Plans on pages F-34 through F-42 of our 2017 Annual Report, for additional information regarding the impact of these factors on our pension plan obligations.. Any strategic alliances or divestitures may expose us to additional risks.. We evaluate potential strategic alliances that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and/or operating efficiency opportunities. Strategic alliances may entail numerous risks, including:. • substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties, including difficulties in leveraging synergies among the businesses to increase sales and obtain cost savings or achieve expected results;. • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from any acquired businesses and disruption to our direct-selling channel;. • diversion of management's attention from our core business;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and. • reputational and other risks regarding our ability to successfully implement such strategic alliances, including obtaining financing which could dilute the interests of our shareholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both.. 15. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any new or acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates or consummate such transactions on favorable terms.. For divestitures, success is also dependent on effectively and efficiently separating the divested unit or business from the Company and reducing or eliminating associated overhead costs. In cases where a divestiture is not successfully implemented or completed, the Company's business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Please see \"Risks Related to the Separation of North America and the Preferred Stock Investment in the Company\" below for additional information regarding the risks associated with the separation of North America.. The loss of, or a disruption in, our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business.. Our principal properties consist of worldwide manufacturing facilities for the production of Beauty products, distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to Representatives in fulfillment of their orders, and one principal research and development facility. Additionally, we use third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. Therefore, as a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems (such as our ERP system), loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control issues, safety concerns, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints, particularly if we are unable to successfully increase our resiliency to potential operational disruptions or enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or those of our third-party manufacturers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. Our success depends, in part, on the quality, safety and efficacy of our products.. Our success depends, in part, on the quality, safety and efficacy of our products. If our products are found to be, or perceived to be, defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet the Representatives' or end customers' standards, then our relationship with the Representatives or end customers could suffer, we may need to recall some of our products and/or become subject to regulatory action, our reputation or the appeal of our brand could be diminished, we could lose market share, and we could become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically patents and trademarks, our ability to compete could be adversely affected.. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We own the material patents and trademarks used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products where such products are principally sold. Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in certain countries in which we operate, there can be no assurance with respect to the rights associated with such intellectual property in those countries. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including many emerging markets, may not completely protect our intellectual property rights. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks, especially in emerging markets, may be substantial. Please see \"The licensing of our North America intellectual property rights, including trademarks that are fundamental to our brand, in connection with the Separation could adversely impact our reputation, our business generally, and our ability to enforce intellectual property rights used in both North America and international jurisdictions\" below for additional information regarding the risks on our intellectual property rights associated with the separation of North America.. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results.. We are and may, in the future, become party to litigation, including, for example, claims alleging violation of the federal securities laws or claims relating to employee or employment matters, our products or advertising. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time-consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect our financial results and the conduct of our business. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party, or to predict the impact of certain of these matters on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 18, Contingencies on pages F-49 through F-51 of our 2017 Annual Report for a detailed discussion regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are a party.. 16. Government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business or reputation. In addition, from time to time we may conduct other investigations and reviews, the consequences of which could negatively impact our business or reputation.. As we operate in various locations around the world, our operations in certain countries are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. The regulatory environment with regard to direct selling in emerging and developing markets where we do business is evolving, and government officials in such locations often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply relevant regulations. From time to time, we may receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, from time to time, we may conduct investigations and reviews. The consequences of such government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions or such investigations and reviews may adversely impact our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.. Additionally, any determination that our operations or activities, or, where local law mandates, the activities of the Representatives, including our licenses or permits, importing or exporting, or product testing or approvals are not, or were not, in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationship, termination of necessary licenses and permits, modification of business practices and compliance programs, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief and other sanctions that we may take against our personnel or that may be taken against us or our personnel. Other legal or regulatory proceedings, as well as government investigations, which often involve complex legal issues and are subject to uncertainties, may also follow as a consequence. Further, other countries in which we do business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar sanctions. These proceedings or investigations could be costly and burdensome to our management, and could adversely impact our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Even if an inquiry or investigation does not result in any adverse determinations, it potentially could create negative publicity and give rise to third-party litigation or action.. We were subject to a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\") and are subject to a consent to settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"). Pursuant to the consent to settlement, the Company must undertake self-reporting obligations until July 2018. Compliance with these obligations could divert members of management's time from the operation of our business. Ongoing costs and burdens could be significant.. In December 2014, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the \"USDC\") approved a deferred prosecution agreement between the Company and the DOJ (the \"DPA\") and in January 2015, the USDC approved a consent to settlement with the SEC (the \"Consent\") in connection with the previously disclosed Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") investigations. The DPA has expired, and the charges against the Company were dismissed with prejudice on February 5, 2018.. Under the DPA and the Consent, among other things, the Company agreed to have a compliance monitor (the \"monitor\"). During July 2015, the Company engaged a monitor, who had been approved by the DOJ and the SEC. The monitor recommended some changes to our policies and procedures that we have adopted and in August 2017, the monitor certified that the Company's compliance program was reasonably designed and implemented to detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and was functioning effectively, consistent with the requirements of the DPA and the Consent. The monitor has been replaced by the Company, which has undertaken self-reporting obligations for the remainder of the monitoring period. The Company submitted its first self-report to the DOJ and the SEC in January 2018. The Company will continue self-reporting to the SEC until the monitoring period expires, which is scheduled under the Consent to occur in July 2018.. The third-party costs incurred in connection with ongoing compliance with self-reporting and the Consent have not been material to date. While we do not anticipate material costs going forward, the Company's self-reporting obligations may be costly and/or time-consuming.. The affirmative vote in the UK to withdraw from the EU may adversely affect our business.. On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the UK parliament voted in March 2017 to trigger Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, commencing the UK's official withdrawal process from the EU. In June 2017, the UK and EU initiated negotiations, which are currently ongoing, to determine the future terms of the parties' relationship, including the terms of trade between the UK and the EU and other nations. The UK is due to leave the EU on March 29, 2019 unless the negotiations are extended by unanimous consent of the European Council. Uncertainty regarding the final terms of the negotiations and related regulatory changes could adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on business activity in the UK, the Eurozone, or the EU. Given that we conduct a substantial portion of our business in the EU and the UK, and our corporate headquarters has. 17. been relocated to the UK, any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations or cash flows.. The uncertainty concerning the timing and terms of the exit could also have a negative impact on the growth of the UK and/or EU economies and cause greater volatility in the pound sterling, euro and/or other currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows and may reduce the reported value of our operating results.. Changes to UK border and immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit, affecting our ability to recruit and retain employees from outside the UK. While the full scope of implementation of the referendum decision is still unclear, companies exposed to or with operations in the UK, such as ours, may face significant regulatory changes as a result of Brexit implementation, and complying with such new regulatory mandates may prove challenging and costly.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations as a result of many factors.. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include the following:. • variations in operating results;. • developments in connection with any investigations or litigations;. • a change in our credit ratings;. • economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets;. • announcements or significant developments in connection with our business and with respect to beauty and related products or the beauty industry in general;. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results;. • unsolicited takeover proposals, proxy contests or other shareholder activism;. • governmental policies and regulations;. • estimates of our future performance or that of our competitors or our industries;. • general economic, political, and market conditions;. • market rumors; and. • factors relating to competitors.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and could in the future continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations.. Risks Related to the Separation of North America and the Preferred Stock Investment in the Company. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation of our North America business.. On March 1, 2016, Cleveland Apple Investor L.P. (\"Cerberus Investor\") (an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management L.P. (\"Cerberus\") contributed $170 million of cash into New Avon LLC (\"New Avon\") in exchange for 80.1% of its membership interests, and we contributed (i) assets primarily related to our North America business (including approximately $100 million of cash, subject to certain adjustments), (ii) certain assumed liabilities (primarily pension and postretirement liabilities) of our North America business and (iii) the employees of our North America business into New Avon in exchange for a 19.9% ownership interest of New Avon (collectively, the \"Separation\"). In connection with the Separation, we entered into a Separation Agreement and various other agreements with New Avon to govern the separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us. The indemnity rights we have against New Avon under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to New Avon may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our financial condition.. We or New Avon may fail to perform under the post-closing arrangements executed in connection with the Separation.. In connection with the Separation, we and New Avon entered into several agreements, including among others a Transition Services Agreement, an Intellectual Property License Agreement, a Technical Support and Innovation Agreement and a Manufacturing and Supply Agreement. Although most of the services provided under the Transition Services Agreement have terminated, we are still required to perform certain information technology-related services, for the benefit of New Avon in 2018. The Intellectual Property License Agreement provides New Avon with rights to use certain intellectual property rights that we used in the conduct of the North America business prior to the Separation. The Technical Support and Innovation Agreement provides that we will perform certain beauty product development services for New Avon through December 31, 2018. The Manufacturing and Supply Agreement provides that we and New Avon will manufacture and supply certain products to each other for an initial term through December 31, 2018. These agreements establish a bilateral relationship between New Avon and us. We will rely on New Avon to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If New. 18. Avon is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The licensing of our North America intellectual property rights, including trademarks that are fundamental to our brand, in connection with the Separation could adversely impact our reputation, our business generally, and our ability to enforce intellectual property rights used in both North America and international jurisdictions.. In connection with the Separation, we granted New Avon a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free license, with the ability to sublicense, to certain intellectual property rights that we used in the conduct of our North America business prior to the Separation. The Intellectual Property License Agreement includes quality control provisions obligating New Avon and its sublicensees to remain in compliance with applicable law or, for certain of our brands, quality standards that we have provided to New Avon, when selling products under certain trademarks that we have licensed to New Avon. However, there is a risk that failure by New Avon or its sublicensees to comply with such quality control provisions or other conduct by New Avon or its sublicensees associated with the trademarks licensed to New Avon, could adversely affect our reputation and our business globally. We have also granted New Avon enforcement rights to intellectual property licensed to New Avon in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our position and options globally relating to enforcement of our intellectual property.. The issuance of 435,000 shares of our series C preferred stock to Cerberus Investor dilutes the ownership of holders of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. On March 1, 2016, we issued and sold to Cerberus Investor 435,000 shares of newly issued series C preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $435 million pursuant to an Investment Agreement between us and Cerberus Investor. Conversion of the series C preferred stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the series C preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have granted Cerberus Investor registration rights with respect to the shares of series C preferred stock and shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the series C preferred stock, which would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market. On October 11, 2016, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-3ASR with the SEC registering for sale by Cerberus Investor 435,000 shares of series C preferred stock, 142,800 shares of series D preferred stock and 113,311,940 shares (plus an additional unspecified number) of common stock. As of the date of this filing, Cerberus Investor had not made any sales in reliance on such Form S-3ASR. Sales by Cerberus Investor of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The series C preferred stock issued to Cerberus Investor has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of holders of our common stock. Such preferential rights could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and financial condition, and may result in the interests of Cerberus Investor differing from those of our common shareholders.. The series C preferred stock ranks senior to the shares of our common stock with respect to dividend rights and rights on the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs. The series C preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, representing an aggregate liquidation preference of $435 million upon issuance. Holders of series C preferred stock are entitled to participate on an as-converted basis in any dividends paid to the holders of shares of our common stock. In addition, cumulative preferred dividends accrue daily on the series C preferred stock and are payable at the rate of 1.25% per quarter (net of any dividends on our common stock and subject to a maximum rate of 5.00% per quarter if we breach certain obligations). Except to the extent not otherwise previously paid by us, preferred dividends are payable on the seventh anniversary of the issuance date of the series C preferred stock as and when declared by the Board of Directors and at the end of each quarter thereafter. Accrued and unpaid preferred dividends may be paid, at our option, (i) in cash, (ii) subject to certain conditions, in shares of our common stock or (iii) upon conversion of shares of series C preferred stock, in shares of our non-voting, non-convertible series D preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. Any such shares of the series D preferred stock issued would have similar preferential rights.. Upon certain change of control events involving us, holders of series C preferred stock can require us to repurchase the series C preferred stock for an amount equal to the greater of (i) an amount in cash equal to 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued but unpaid dividends or (ii) the consideration the holders would have received if they had converted their shares of series C preferred stock into common stock immediately prior to the change of control event.. Our obligations to pay dividends to the holders of series C preferred stock, and to repurchase the outstanding shares of series C preferred stock under certain circumstances, could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows. Our obligations to the holders of series C preferred stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.  The preferential rights of holders of our series C preferred stock could also result in divergent interests between Cerberus Investor and those of our common shareholders.. 19. Cerberus Investor is able to exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect up to three members of our Board of Directors, including the Chairman.. Holders of series C preferred stock are entitled to vote generally with holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis (subject to an agreement to vote in favor of the slate of directors nominated by the Board of Directors, so long as the 25% Ownership Requirement (as defined below) is met and subject to certain exceptions). Therefore, the series C preferred stock issued to Cerberus Investor effectively reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock. The shares of series C preferred stock owned by Cerberus Investor represents approximately 16.6% of the voting rights of our common stock on an as-converted basis. As a result, Cerberus Investor has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our shareholders. In addition, provided Cerberus Investor maintains certain levels of beneficial ownership of series C preferred stock and/or common stock, Cerberus Investor has consent rights over certain actions taken by us, including increasing the size of the Board of Directors, reinstating our quarterly common stock dividend and incurring indebtedness in excess of certain thresholds.. In addition, Cerberus Investor has certain rights to designate directors to serve on our Board of Directors (one of whom will continue to act as the Chairman so long as the 50% Ownership Requirement (as defined below) continues to be met). Cerberus Investor will continue to be entitled to elect: (i) three directors to the Board of Directors, so long as Cerberus Investor continues to beneficially own shares of series C preferred stock and/or shares of common stock that represent, on an as-converted basis, at least 75% of Cerberus Investor's initial shares of series C preferred stock on an as-converted basis, (ii) two directors to the Board of Directors, so long as Cerberus Investor continues to beneficially own shares of series C preferred stock and/or common stock that represent, on an as-converted basis, at least 50% but less than 75% of Cerberus Investor's initial shares of series C preferred stock on an as-converted basis (the \"50% Ownership Requirement\") and (iii) one director to the Board of Directors, so long as Cerberus Investor continues to beneficially own shares of series C preferred stock and/or common stock that represent, on an as-converted basis, at least 25% but less than 50% of Cerberus Investor's initial shares of series C preferred stock on an as-converted basis (the \"25% Ownership Requirement\"). Until Cerberus Investor no longer meets the 25% Ownership Requirement, subject to certain exceptions and to satisfaction by such director designees of independence and other customary qualifications, Cerberus Investor has the right to have one of its director designees serve on each committee of the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding the fact that all directors are subject to fiduciary duties and applicable law, the interests of the directors appointed by Cerberus Investor may differ from the interests of holders of our common stock as a whole or of our other directors."
