[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including but not limited to the risks described below, which we believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations in the future. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth could be negatively impacted.. Our business segments operate in highly competitive markets.. Many of our competitors, primarily in our Energy Segment, are significantly larger and have substantially more resources than AZZ. Competition is based on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products and services at lower prices than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality in the future. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industries, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base.. Climate change could impact our business.. Climate changes could result in an adverse impact on AZZ's operations, particularly in hurricane prone or low lying areas near the ocean. At this time, the Company is not able to speculate as to the potential timing or impact from potential global warming and other natural disasters, however the Company believes that it currently has adequate insurance coverage and disaster recovery plans related to any potential natural disasters that might occur at any of the Company's sites.. Changes in greenhouse gas regulations could impact our operating results.. International agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit greenhouse emissions are currently in various stages of discussion or implementation. These and other greenhouse gas emissions-related laws, policies and regulations may result in substantial capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs. The level of expenditure required to comply with these laws and regulations is uncertain and is expected to vary depending on the laws enacted in each jurisdiction, our activities in the particular jurisdiction, and market conditions.. The effect of regulation on our financial performance will depend on a number of factors including, not limited to, the sectors covered, the greenhouse gas emissions reductions required by law, the extent to which we would be entitled to receive emission allowance allocations or would need to purchase compliance instruments on the open market or through auctions, the price and availability of emission allowances and credits and the impact of legislation or other regulation on our ability to recover the costs incurred through the pricing of our products and services.. Our business segments are sensitive to economic downturns.. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates from current levels, our customers may delay or cancel new projects. If there is a reduction in demand for our products or services, as a result of a downturn in the general economy, there could be a material adverse effect on price levels and the quantity of goods and services purchased, therefore adversely impacting revenues and results from operations. A number of factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future and pay for past services. Certain economic conditions may also impact the financial condition of one or more of our key suppliers, which could affect our ability to secure raw materials and components to meet our customers' demand for our products in the future. Other various factors drive demand for our products and services, including the price of oil, economic forecasts and financial markets. Uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets could continue to impact our customers and could in turn severely impact the demand for spending projects that would result in a reduction in orders for our products and services. All of these factors combined together could materially impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and potentially impact the trading price of our common stock.. International and political events may adversely affect our Energy and Metal Coatings Segments.. A portion of the revenues from our Energy and Metal Coatings Segments are from international markets. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition:. • political and economic instability, such as is occurring in Northern Africa, Europe and the Middle East;. • social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict;. • inflation;. • currency fluctuation, devaluations and conversion restrictions;. 7. Table of Contents. • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds; and. • trade restrictions and economic embargoes by the United States or other countries.. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments may adversely affect our operations.. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials for our Energy Segment to manufacture our products, including copper, aluminum, steel and nickel. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. In our Metal Coatings Segment, zinc and natural gas represent a large portion of our cost of sales. The prices of zinc and natural gas are subject to volatility. The following factors, which are beyond our control, affect the price of raw materials and natural gas for our business segments: supply and demand; freight costs and transportation availability; trade duties and taxes; and labor disputes. We seek to maintain operating margins by attempting to increase the price of our products and services in response to increased costs, but may not be successful in passing these price increases through to our customers.. Our volume of fixed-price contracts for our Energy Segment could adversely affect our business.. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. Depending on the size of a particular project, variations from estimated cost could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal year.. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the continuing effects from government regulations.. Various regulations have been implemented related to new safety and certification requirements applicable to oil and gas drilling and production activities. While certain new drilling plans and drilling permits have been approved, we cannot predict whether operators will be able to satisfy these requirements. Further, we cannot predict what the continuing effects of government regulations on offshore deepwater drilling projects may have on offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or what actions may be taken by our customers or other industry participants in response to these regulations. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities and decisions by customers and other industry participants could reduce demand for our services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. Similarly, we cannot accurately predict future regulations by the government in any country in which we operate and how those regulations may affect our ability to perform projects in those regions.. Federal, state and local governments have a major impact on the framework and economics of the US nuclear power industry.  Changes in laws or regulations regarding the operations of current nuclear facilities could have an impact on the demand for our products and services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. These same risks are also associated with foreign nuclear power industries.. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a rule pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for publicly-traded companies that use tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold (collectively, \"conflict minerals\") mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs for due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes, or sources of supply. Despite our due diligence efforts, we may be unable to verify the origin of all conflict minerals used in our component products. As a result, we may face reputational and other challenges with customers that require that all of the components incorporated in our products be certified as conflict-free.. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks.. We intend to pursue continued growth through opportunities to acquire companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings and to increase our geographic footprint. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including:. • difficulties in the post acquisition integration of operations and systems;. • the termination of relationships with key personnel and customers of the acquired company;. • a failure to add additional employees to manage the increased volume of business;. • additional post acquisition challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and legal compliance;. 8. Table of Contents. • risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during the preacquisition due diligence process;. • a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention; and. • a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated prior to acquisition.. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on current attractive market terms.. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting in the Energy Segment could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits.. As discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a portion of our revenues is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice causes us to recognize contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from original estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant.. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog for our Energy Segment.. We have a backlog of work in our Energy Segment. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business secured, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects that were recorded as new business are cancelled. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, we may also incur additional costs resulting from underutilized assets if projects are cancelled.. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by:. • the timing and volume of work under new agreements;. • general economic conditions;. • the budgetary spending patterns of customers;. • variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter;. • losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance;. • a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions;. • a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business;. • a change in customer delivery schedule;. • increases in design and manufacturing costs; and. • abilities of customers to pay their invoices owed to us.. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results expected for any other quarter or for the entire year.. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth.. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:. • attract new customers, internationally and domestically;. • integrate regulatory changes;. • increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers;. • hire and retain employees; and. • increase volume utilizing our existing facilities.. 9. Table of Contents. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business.. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business.. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability could be limited by an inability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expense will not increase as a result of shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues.. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits, and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition.. In the future, the Company could be named as a defendant in legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or with respect to the equipment we manufacture. We could potentially be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers, in which we seek to recover payments of contractual amounts due to us, and claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure. If in the future our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or incorrect, our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation and possibly divert management resources away from operating our business.. Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete.. All of the products manufactured and sold by the Company depend upon the best available technology for success in the marketplace. The competitive environment is highly sensitive to technological innovation in both segments of our business. It is possible for our competitors, both foreign and domestic, to develop new products or production methods, which will make current products or methods obsolete or at least hasten their obsolescence.. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business.. The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis or hurricanes to epidemics such as health epidemics to acts of war and terrorism could disrupt or delay our ability to complete projects and could potentially expose the Company to third-party liability claims. Such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles. In addition, such events could impact our customers and suppliers, resulting in temporary or long-term delays and/or cancellations of orders or raw materials used in normal business operations. These situations are outside the Company's control and could have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations.. Adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations could make it easier for our employees to obtain union representation and our business could be adversely impacted.. Other than a nominal number of employees at four of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, none of our employees are currently represented by unions. However, our U.S. based employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or our entire workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of new regulations, or the enactment of new legislation could have an adverse impact on our business; to the extent it becomes easier for workers to obtain union representation.. 10. Table of Contents. AZZ's flexibility to operate its business could be impacted by provisions in its debt obligations.. AZZ's debt instruments contain covenants which restrict or prohibit certain actions (\"negative covenants\"), including, but not limited to, AZZ's ability to incur debt, create or suffer to exist liens, capital spending limits, engage in certain merger, acquisition, or divestiture actions, or increase dividends beyond a specific level. AZZ's debt instruments also contain covenants requiring AZZ to, among other things, maintain specified financial ratios (\"affirmative covenants\"). Failure to comply with these negative covenants and affirmative covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could restrict the Company's access to liquidity and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or prospects. If the Company does not have  enough cash to service its debt or fund other liquidity needs, AZZ may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. AZZ cannot assure that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. A failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may. affect adversely our financial results.. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our business. We use computer programs to help run our financial and operations sectors, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss, including potential fines for failure to safeguard data, and may negatively impact our reputation. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. We are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally. Many of these jurisdictions have made changes to their tax policies, including tax reform in the U.S. that was enacted in December 2017.  In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\") was signed into law revising the U.S. corporate income tax. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the elimination of certain deductions and imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Act also includes international provisions, which generally establish a territorial-style system for taxing foreign source income of domestic multinational corporations. The most significant change was for the provisional benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred taxes at the lower corporate rate.. The overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Financial results for fiscal 2018 reflect provisional estimates based on our initial analysis and current interpretation of the legislation. Given the complexity of the legislation, anticipated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service, and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board, these provisional estimates may be adjusted during fiscal year 2019, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law."
