[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Any investment in our company will be subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In that case, holders of our securities may lose all or part of their investment.. -  11  -. Table of Contents. Risks Specific to Our Company. The packaged food industry is highly competitive.. The packaged food industry is highly competitive. Numerous brands and products, including private label products, compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product quality, convenience, price, trade promotion, brand recognition and loyalty, customer service, effective consumer advertising and promotional activities and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources available to them and may have lower fixed costs and/or are substantially less leveraged than our company. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully with these companies or if competitive pressures or other factors cause our products to lose market share or result in significant price erosion, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be unable to maintain our profitability in the face of a consolidating retail environment.. Our largest customer, Wal - Mart, accounted for 24.1% of our fiscal 2017 net sales, and our ten largest customers together accounted for approximately 54.6% of our fiscal 2017 net sales. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more sophisticated, our retail customers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, these customers are reducing their inventories and increasing their emphasis on products that hold either the number one or number two market position and private label products. If we fail to use our sales and marketing expertise to maintain our category leadership positions to respond to these trends, or if we lower our prices or increase promotional support of our products and are unable to increase the volume of our products sold, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We are vulnerable to decreases in the supply and increases in the price of raw materials and labor, manufacturing, distribution and other costs, and we may not be able to offset increasing costs by increasing prices to our customers.. We purchase agricultural products, including vegetables and spices and seasonings, meat, poultry, other raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials from growers, commodity processors, other food companies and packaging manufacturers. Raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials are subject to increases in price attributable to a number of factors, including changes in crop size, federal and state agricultural programs, export demand, currency exchange rates, energy and fuel costs, water supply, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, insects, plant diseases and fungi, and glass, metal and plastic prices. Fluctuations in commodity prices can lead to retail price volatility and intensive price competition, and can influence consumer and trade buying patterns. The cost of labor, manufacturing, energy, fuel, packaging materials and other costs related to the production and distribution of our products can from time to time increase significantly and unexpectedly. We attempt to manage these risks by entering into short - term supply contracts and advance commodities purchase agreements from time to time, by implementing cost saving measures and by raising sales prices. During the past three years, our cost saving measures and sales price increases substantially offset increases to our raw material, ingredient and packaging costs. To the extent we are unable to offset present and future cost increases, our operating results will be negatively impacted.. We may be unable to offset any reduction in net sales in our mature food product categories through an increase in trade spending for these categories or an increase in net sales in other categories.. Most of our food product categories are mature and certain categories have experienced declining consumption rates from time to time. If consumption rates and sales in our mature food product categories decline, our revenue and operating income may be adversely affected, and we may not be able to offset this decrease in business with increased trade spending or an increase in sales or profitability of other products and product categories.. We may have difficulties integrating acquisitions or identifying new acquisitions.. A major part of our strategy is to grow through acquisition. We completed the Back to Nature acquisition in October 2017 and we expect to pursue additional acquisitions of food product lines and businesses. However, we may be unable to identify and consummate additional acquisitions or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage the product lines or businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to. -  12  -. Table of Contents. achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings from acquisitions or other anticipated benefits in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Moreover, any acquired product lines or businesses may require a greater than anticipated amount of trade, promotional and capital spending. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, personnel turnover and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any product lines or businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, future acquisitions by us could result in our incurring substantial additional indebtedness, being exposed to contingent liabilities or incurring the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We have substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and impact our financing options and liquidity position.. At December 30, 2017, we had total long - term indebtedness of $2,250.1 million (before debt discount), including $650.1 million principal amount of senior secured indebtedness (which we subsequently reduced to $600.1 million during the first quarter of 2018) and $1,600.0 million principal amount of senior unsecured indebtedness. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness. Although our credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes (which we refer to as the senior notes indentures) contain covenants that restrict our ability to incur debt, as long as we meet these covenants we will be able to incur additional indebtedness. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta significant portion of our cash flow is likely to be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions and/or dividends on our common stock; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures.. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our debt that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations.. The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of certain preferred stock or redeemable capital stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe payment of dividends on, and purchase or redemption of, capital stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta number of restricted payments, including investments;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspecified sales of assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspecified transactions with affiliates;. -  13  -. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe creation of certain types of liens;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tentry into certain sale and leaseback transactions.. Our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests, including, without limitation, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio.. Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, or failure to meet or maintain ratios or tests could result in a default under our credit agreement and/or our senior notes indentures. Certain events of default under our credit agreement and our senior notes indentures would prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement or our senior notes indentures, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement and the senior notes, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the credit agreement lenders could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness and our other indebtedness.. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and potential acquisitions depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt requirements. In addition, in accordance with our current dividend policy we intend to continue distributing a significant portion of any remaining cash flow to our stockholders as dividends.. Our ability to continue to expand our business is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to borrow funds under our credit agreement and to obtain other third - party financing, including through the issuance and sale of additional debt or equity securities.. Financial market conditions may impede our access to, or increase the cost of, financing for acquisitions.. Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for acquisitions or increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long - term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies that are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing.. Future disruptions in the credit markets or other factors, could impair our ability to refinance our debt upon terms acceptable to us or at all.. Our $700.0 million revolving credit facility matures on November 21, 2022, our $600.1 million of tranche B term loan borrowings mature on November 2, 2022, our $700.0 million of 4.625% senior notes mature on June 1, 2021 and our $900.0 million of 5.25% senior notes mature on April 1, 2025. Our ability to raise debt or equity capital in the public or private markets in order to effect a refinancing of our debt at or prior to maturity could be impaired by various factors, including factors beyond our control. For example, in recent years U.S. credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions that caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Any future uncertainty in. -  14  -. Table of Contents. the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, any future uncertainty in other financial markets in the U.S. could make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at or prior to maturity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we would be forced to seek other alternatives, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of assets;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of equity; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegotiations with our lenders or noteholders to restructure the applicable debt.. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options, our business and/or the value of an investment in our securities could be adversely affected.. We rely on co - packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs, and the inability to enter into additional or future co - packing agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand.. We rely upon co - packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high - quality co - packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co - packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Our inability to enter into satisfactory co - packing agreements could limit our ability to implement our business plan or meet customer demand.. We rely on the performance of major retailers, wholesalers, specialty distributors and mass merchants for the success of our business, and should they perform poorly or give higher priority to other brands or products, our business could be adversely affected.. We sell our products principally to retail outlets and wholesale distributors including, traditional supermarkets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, wholesalers, foodservice distributors and direct accounts, specialty food distributors, military commissaries and non - food outlets such as drug store chains, dollar stores and e-tailers. The replacement by or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or chains or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers offer branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to their own products or to the products of our competitors. In the future, our customers may not continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support.  It is also possible that our customers may replace our branded products with private label products.. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and consumer demographics, which may result in decreased demand for our products.. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing tastes, dietary habits and product packaging preferences of consumers in the market categories in which we compete. If we are not able to anticipate, identify or develop and market products that respond to these changes in consumer preferences, whether resulting from changing consumer demographics or otherwise, demand for our products may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs related to developing and marketing new products or expanding our existing product lines in reaction to what we perceive to be increased consumer preference or demand. Such development or marketing may not result in the volume of sales or profitability anticipated.. -  15  -. Table of Contents. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters can affect crop supplies and reduce our operating results.. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes or pestilence, may affect the supply of the raw materials that we use for our products. Our maple syrup products, for instance, are particularly susceptible to severe freezing conditions in Québec, Canada and Vermont during the season in which maple syrup is produced. Our Green Giant frozen vegetable manufacturing facility in Irapuato, Mexico is located in a region affected by water scarcity and restrictions on usage. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies. If our supplies of raw materials are reduced, we may not be able to find supplemental supply sources on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Climate change, water scarcity or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change or water scarcity, could negatively affect our business and operations.. In the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. For example, our Green Giant frozen vegetable manufacturing facility in Irapuato, Mexico is already affected by water scarcity in that region of Mexico. Any further restrictions on, or loss of, water rights due to water scarcity, water rights violations or otherwise for our Irapuato manufacturing facility could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, foreign and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy and resource efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our manufacturing and distribution costs. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the supply chain and distribution costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change or increased concern over climate change could negatively affect our business and operations.. Most of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites, which means disruptions in our or our co - packers operations for any number of reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our products are manufactured at many different manufacturing facilities, including our ten manufacturing facilities and manufacturing facilities operated by our co - packers. However, in most cases, individual products are produced only at a single location. If any of these manufacturing locations experiences a disruption for any reason, including a work stoppage, power failure, fire, or weather related condition or natural disaster, etc., this could result in a significant reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. If we were not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the United States Department of Labor, the Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities. We are also subject to U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, including anti - bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Any changes in these laws and regulations, or any changes in how existing or future laws or regulations will be enforced, administered or interpreted could increase the cost of developing, manufacturing and distributing our products or otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, or expose us to additional risk of liabilities and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See Item 1, \"Business - Government Regulation\" and \" - Environmental Matters.\". -  16  -. Table of Contents. Failure by third - party co - packers or suppliers of raw materials to comply with food safety, environmental or other regulations may disrupt our supply of certain products and adversely affect our business.. We rely on co - packers to produce certain of our products and on other suppliers to supply raw materials. Such co - packers and other suppliers, whether in the United States or outside the United States, are subject to a number of regulations, including food safety and environmental regulations. Failure by any of our co - packers or other suppliers to comply with regulations, or allegations of compliance failure, may disrupt their operations. Disruption of the operations of a co - packer or other suppliers could disrupt our supply of product or raw materials, which could have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. A recall of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death.. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from mislabeling, tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling or transportation phases of production. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products, leading to a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims might be asserted against us. We have from time to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of which have been material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health - related illness in the future we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused injury, illness or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance and product contamination insurance in amounts we believe to be adequate. However, we cannot assure you that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall or the damage to our reputation resulting therefrom could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs.. We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, the marketing and labeling of products, employment matters, environmental matters or other aspects of our business. Even when not merited, the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The outcome of litigation is often difficult to predict, and the outcome of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns could adversely affect sales of certain of our products.. If consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products even without a product liability claim or a product recall, our business could be adversely affected. Consumers have been increasingly focused on food safety and health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. We have been and will continue to be impacted by publicity concerning the health implications of food products generally, which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. Developments in any of these areas could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be projected.. -  17  -. Table of Contents. A weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar would significantly increase our future costs relating to the production of maple syrup products.. We purchase a significant majority of our maple syrup requirements from suppliers in Québec, Canada. A weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar would significantly increase our future costs relating to the production of our maple syrup products to the extent we have not purchased Canadian dollars or otherwise entered into a currency hedging arrangement in advance of any such weakening of the U.S. dollar. These increased costs may not be fully offset by the positive impact the change in the relative strength of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar would have on our net sales in Canada.. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political, economic and foreign currency risk.. Our relationships with foreign suppliers and co - packers as well as our manufacturing location in Irapuato, Mexico also subject us to the risks of doing business outside the United States. The countries from which we source our raw materials and certain of our finished goods may be subject to political and economic instability, and may periodically enact new or revise existing laws, taxes, duties, quotas, tariffs, currency controls or other restrictions to which we are subject, including restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries or the nationalization of operations. Our products are subject to import duties and other restrictions, and the U.S. government may periodically impose new or revise existing duties, quotas, tariffs or other restrictions to which we are subject, including restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries.. In particular, if the United States takes action to withdraw from or materially modify the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) or certain other international trade agreements, or establish a \"border tax,\" our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, changes in respective wage rates among the countries from which we and our competitors source product could substantially impact our competitive position. Changes in exchange rates, import/export duties or relative international wage rates applicable to us or our competitors could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may impact us in a different manner than our competitors.. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations. Our principal exposures are to the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso. For example, our foreign sales are primarily to customers in Canada. Net sales in Canada accounted for 5.5% of our total net sales in 2017.  Although our sales for export to other countries are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, our sales to Canada are generally denominated in Canadian dollars. As a result, our net sales to Canada are subject to the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, and these fluctuations could have an adverse impact on operating results. From time to time, we may enter into agreements that are intended to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in significantly reducing our exposure.. Litigation regarding our trademarks and any other proprietary rights and intellectual property infringement claims may have a significant negative impact on our business.. We maintain an extensive trademark portfolio that we consider to be of significant importance to our business. If the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as an alleged violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate or enter into litigation in the future to enforce our trademark rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal proceedings could result in an adverse determination that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We face risks associated with our defined benefit pension plans and multiemployer pension plan obligations.. We maintain four defined benefit pension plans that cover approximately 40% of our employees. A deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from poor market performance, a general financial downturn or otherwise could cause an increase in the amount of contributions we are required to make to these plans. For example, our defined benefit pension plans may from time to time move from an overfunded to underfunded status driven by. -  18  -. Table of Contents. decreases in plan asset values that may result from changes in long - term interests rates and disruptions in U.S. or global financial markets. Additionally, historically low interest rates coupled with poor market performance would have the effect of decreasing the funded status of these plans which would result in greater required contributions. For a more detailed description of these plans, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies; Use of Estimates - Pension Expense\" and Note 12, \"Pension Benefits,\" to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. We also participate in a multiemployer pension plan maintained by the labor union representing certain of our employees at our Portland, Maine facility. We make periodic contributions to this plan pursuant to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. In the event that we withdraw from participation in this plan or substantially reduce our participation in this plan (such as due to a workforce reduction), applicable law could require us to make withdrawal liability payments to the plan, and we would have to reflect that liability on our balance sheet. The amount of our withdrawal liability would depend on the extent of this plan's funding of vested benefits at the time of our withdrawal. Furthermore, our withdrawal liability could increase as the number of employers participating in this plan decreases.. For a more detailed description of this multiemployer plan, see Note 12, \"Pension Benefits,\" to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. An obligation to make additional, unanticipated contributions to our defined benefit plans or the multiemployer plan described above could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Our financial well - being could be jeopardized by unforeseen changes in our employees' collective bargaining agreements, shifts in union policy or labor disruptions in the food industry.. As of December 30, 2017, approximately 61% of our 2,680 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged work stoppage or strike at any of our facilities with union employees or a significant work disruption from other labor disputes in the food or related industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. If prior to the expiration of any of our existing collective bargaining agreements we are unable to reach new agreements without union action or any such new agreements are not on terms satisfactory to us, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology; Disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Information technology is critically important to our business operations. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions. We depend on our information technology infrastructure to communicate internally and externally with employees, customers, suppliers and others. We also use information technology networks and systems to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. These information technology systems, many of which are managed by third parties or used in connection with shared service centers, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results.. In addition, if we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break - ins, cyber - attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees. The mishandling or inappropriate disclosure of non - public sensitive or protected. -  19  -. Table of Contents. information could lead to the loss of intellectual property, negatively impact planned corporate transactions or damage our reputation and brand image. Misuse, leakage or falsification of legally protected information could also result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and have a negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience difficulties fully implementing our new enterprise resource planning system.. We are implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The implementation of the new ERP system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. We may not be able to complete successfully the full implementation of the ERP systems without experiencing difficulties. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to produce products, process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations,  integrate acquisitions, or otherwise operate our business.  It is also possible that the migration to a new ERP system could adversely affect our internal controls over financial reporting.. If we are unable to retain our key management personnel, our growth and future success may be impaired and our results of operations could suffer as a result.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. As a result, departure by members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we do not maintain key - man life insurance on any of our executive officers.. We are a holding company and we rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company, with all of our assets held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries, and we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service obligations and to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us depends on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries, our credit agreement, our senior notes indentures and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur.. Future changes that increase cash taxes payable by us could significantly decrease our future cash flow available to make interest and dividend payments with respect to our securities.. We are able to amortize goodwill and certain intangible assets within the meaning of Section 197 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. We expect to be able to amortize for tax purposes approximately $1,265.3  million between 2018 and 2032. The expected annual deductions are approximately $123.5 million for fiscal 2018, approximately $118.8 million for fiscal 2019, approximately $117.4 million for fiscal 2020, approximately $114.4 million for fiscal 2021, approximately $103.4 million for fiscal 2022, approximately $101.2 million per year for fiscal 2023 through fiscal 2024, approximately $100.9 million for fiscal 2025, approximately $97.0 million for fiscal 2026, approximately $77.1 million for fiscal 2027, approximately $68.3 million for fiscal 2028, approximately $61.0 million for fiscal 2029, approximately $54.9 million for fiscal 2030, approximately $22.2 million for fiscal 2031, and approximately $4.0 million for fiscal 2032. If there is a change in U.S. federal tax policy that reduces any of these available deductions, eliminates, limits or reduces the interest deduction we receive on our substantial indebtedness, or otherwise results in an increase in our corporate tax rate, our cash taxes payable would increase, which could significantly reduce our future cash and impact our ability to make interest and dividend payments.  Likewise, the ultimate impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law on December 22, 2017 on our reported results in fiscal 2018 and beyond may differ from the estimates provided in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued, and other actions we may take as a result of the new tax law different from that currently contemplated.  See Note 10, \"Income Taxes,\" to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 for information about the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. -  20  -. Table of Contents. A change in the assumptions used to value our goodwill or our unamortizable intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. Our total assets include substantial goodwill and unamortizable intangible assets (trademarks). These assets are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill or unamortizable intangibles might be impaired. The annual goodwill impairment test involves a two - step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing our company's market capitalization with our company's carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of our company exceeds our market capitalization, we perform the second step of the impairment test to determine the amount of the impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value and recognizing a loss for the difference. We test our unamortizable intangibles by comparing the fair value with the carrying value and recognize a loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of our unamortizable intangibles based on discounted cash flows that reflect certain third party market value indicators. Estimating our fair value for these purposes requires significant estimates and assumptions by management. We completed our annual impairment tests for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 with no adjustments to the carrying values of goodwill and unamortizable intangibles. However, an interim impairment analysis relating to one of our brands performed during fiscal 2014, resulted in our company recording non - cash impairment charges to amortizable trademarks and customer relationship intangibles for the brand of $26.9 million and $7.3 million, respectively, during fiscal 2014.  During the second quarter of 2016, we discontinued that brand because there was not sufficient demand to warrant continued production.  Accordingly, we wrote off the related intangible assets and recorded non-cash impairment charges to amortizable trademarks and customer relationship intangibles of $4.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively, which are recorded in \"Impairment of intangible assets\" on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2016. If operating results for any of our other brands, including newly acquired brands, deteriorate, at rates in excess of our current projections, we may be required to record additional non - cash impairment charges to certain intangible assets. In addition, any significant decline in our market capitalization, even if due to macroeconomic factors, could put pressure on the carrying value of our goodwill. A determination that all or a portion of our goodwill or unamortizable intangible assets are impaired, although a non - cash charge to operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets could expose us to additional credit risks from customers and supply risks from suppliers and co - packers.. Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets could result in some of our customers experiencing a significant decline in profits and/or reduced liquidity. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer and could limit our ability to collect receivables. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a supplier or co - packer could result in an interruption of supply. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Risks Relating to our Securities. Holders of our common stock may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividends at all.. Dividend payments are not mandatory or guaranteed and holders of our common stock do not have any legal right to receive, or require us to pay, dividends. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decrease the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our capital stock, if any, depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions (including restrictions in our credit agreement and senior notes indentures), business opportunities, provisions of applicable law (including certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law) and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.. If our cash flows from operating activities were to fall below our minimum expectations (or if our assumptions as to capital expenditures or interest expense were too low or our assumptions as to the sufficiency of our revolving credit facility to finance our working capital needs were to prove incorrect), we may need either to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under our credit agreement and senior notes indentures, fund a portion of our dividends with borrowings or from other sources. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund. -  21  -. Table of Contents. dividends, we would have less cash and/or borrowing capacity available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to maintain or expand our business.. Our dividend policy may negatively impact our ability to finance capital expenditures, operations or acquisition opportunities.. Under our dividend policy, a substantial portion of our cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs, interest and principal payments on indebtedness, and capital expenditures sufficient to maintain our properties and assets is in general distributed as regular quarterly cash dividends to the holders of our common stock. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities or unanticipated capital expenditure needs or to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock that may be senior to our common stock in certain respects.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval and, in the case of preferred stock, upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future, including any preferential rights that we may grant to the holders of preferred stock. The terms of any preferred stock we issue may place restrictions on the payment of dividends to the holders of our common stock. If we issue preferred stock that is senior to our common stock in right of dividend payment, and our cash flows from operating activities or surplus are insufficient to support dividend payments to the holders of preferred stock, on the one hand, and to the holders common stock, on the other hand, we may be forced to reduce or eliminate dividends to the holders of our common stock.. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock may depress the price of our common stock.. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock from time to time in future financings or as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such future financing, acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock that we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may grant registration rights covering shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, as applicable, issued in connection with any such future financing, acquisitions and investments.. Future sales or the availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, whether issued and sold pursuant to our currently effective shelf registration statement or otherwise, would dilute our earnings per share and the voting power of each share of common stock outstanding prior to such sale or distribution, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our securities and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and several other factors could limit another party's ability to acquire us and deprive our investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their securities.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover premium for their securities. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future.. -  22  -. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                     
