[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operating Environment. Our business strategy includes sustainable growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We intend to pursue an organic growth strategy for our business. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may also engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions, branch acquisitions and other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully execute our organic growth strategy, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.. There are risks associated with our growth strategy. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involves various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of integrating acquired banks or branches, the risk of loss of customers and/or employees of the acquired institution or branch, executing cost savings measures, not achieving revenue enhancements and otherwise not realizing the transaction's anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. There is also the risk that the requisite regulatory approvals might not be received and other conditions to consummation of a transaction might not be satisfied during the anticipated timeframes, or at all. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations, may require investment in integration and in development and enhancement of additional operational and reporting processes and controls, and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders.. Our growth initiatives may also require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risks related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets.. If we do not successfully execute our growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we will have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth.. 17. Table of Contents. A pending investigation by the SEC, as well as any related litigation or other litigation, may result in adverse findings, reputational damage, the imposition of sanctions and other negative consequences which could adversely affect our financial condition and future operating results.. Beginning on October 18, 2016, various anonymous blog posts raised questions about related party transactions, concerns over director independence and other issues, including suggestions that the Company was controlled by an individual who pled guilty to securities fraud in matters unrelated to us. In response to these allegations, the Company's Board of Directors formed a Special Committee consisting solely of independent directors to investigate the allegations. The Special Committee conducted its investigation with the assistance of independent legal counsel and did not find evidence that the individual named in the blog posts had any direct or indirect control or undue influence over the Company.. Furthermore, the inquiry did not find any violations of law or evidence establishing that any loan, related party transaction, or any other circumstance impaired the independence of any director. However, the Special Committee did find that certain public statements made by the Company in October 2016 regarding its earlier inquiry into these matters were not fully accurate. On January 12, 2017, the Company received a formal order of investigation issued by the SEC directed primarily at certain of the issues that the Special Committee reviewed. The Company has been fully cooperating with the SEC in this investigation.. The SEC investigation could lead to the institution of civil or administrative proceedings against the Company as well as against individuals currently or previously associated with the Company. Any such proceedings or threatened proceedings might result in the imposition of monetary fines or other sanctions against the named parties. Resulting sanctions could include remedial measures that might prove costly or disruptive to our business. Additionally, as discussed under Item 3 in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the first of several putative class lawsuits against the Company was filed on January 23, 2017 and other lawsuits against the Company have been filed by former officers and others.. The pendency of the SEC investigation and any resulting litigation or sanctions, as well as the pending lawsuits (or any other lawsuits) could harm our reputation, leading to a loss of existing and potential customers, and our ability to attract and retain deposits and greater difficulty in securing financing or other developments which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and future operating results. In addition, management time and resources will be diverted to address the investigation and any related litigation, as well as the pending lawsuits, and we may incur significant legal and other expenses in our defense of the investigation and any related litigation as well as the pending lawsuits.. Notwithstanding the hiring of our new Chief Executive Officer and our new Chief Financial Officer following the resignations of our former President and Chief Executive Officer and our Interim Chief Financial Officer, the management transition we are undergoing could prove disruptive to our operations, with adverse consequences for our business and operating results.. On May 8, 2017, Douglas H. Bowers became the new President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank, and on September 5, 2017, John A. Bogler became the new Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Bank. This transition at the senior management level may result in disruptions to our business and uncertainty among our customers, employees and investors concerning our future direction and performance. Any such uncertainty may complicate our ability to enter into financing or strategic business transactions and it may also be more difficult for us to recruit and retain other managerial employees until the transition is completed. Such disruptions and uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results.. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in the Bank's market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve may impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan and lease portfolio.. Our primary market area is concentrated in the greater San Diego, Orange, Santa Barbara, and Los Angeles counties. Adverse economic conditions in any of these areas can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and leases and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely.. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • Demand for our products and services may decline;. • Loan and lease delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • Collateral for our loans and leases may further decline in value; and. • The amount of our low cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease.. 18. Table of Contents. We cannot accurately predict the possibility of weakness in the national or local economy effecting our future operating results.. We cannot accurately predict the possibility of the national or local economy's return to recessionary conditions or to a period of economic weakness, which would adversely impact the markets we serve. Any deterioration in national or local economic conditions would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and any economic weakness could present substantial risks for the banking industry and for us.. The recently enacted tax reform legislation is expected to have a significant impact on the Company and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the broader implications of the legislation.. H.R. 1, which was originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" and was signed into law in December 2017, is expected to have a significant impact on the Company's financial statements, equity awards and customers. It will take some time for the Company to analyze all of the implications of this legislation and adjust its strategies to the extent appropriate. For example, although the Company generally benefits from the legislation's reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate, a tax rate reduction has broader implications for the Company's operations as the new rates could cause positive or negative impacts on loan demand and on the Company's pricing models, municipal bonds, tax credits and CRA investments and capital market transactions. Additionally, the interest deduction limitation implemented by the new tax law could make some businesses and industries less inclined to borrow, potentially reducing demand for the Company's commercial loan products. Further, the new law's limitation on the mortgage interest deduction and state and local tax deduction for individual taxpayers is expected to increase the after-tax cost of owning a home for many of our potential and existing customers and potentially lead to reduced demand for, or the individual size of, new residential mortgage loans that we originate. Finally, we may be negatively impacted more than our competitors because our business strategy focuses on California, which has a higher cost real estate market compared to other states.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their outstanding loans, cause significant property damage or otherwise impair the value of collateral securing our loans, and result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and we monitor the effects of any such events on our loans, properties and investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us or our earnings or our financial condition.. There are risks associated with our lending activities and our allowance for loan and lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb actual incurred losses in our loan and lease portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan and lease carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:. • Cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. • In the case of a collateralized loan or lease, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral;. • The credit history of a particular borrower;. • Changes in economic and industry conditions; and. • The duration of the loan or lease.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable incurred losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • An ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan and lease portfolio;. • Evaluation of non-performing loans and leases;. • Historical default and loss experience;. • Historical recovery experience;. • Existing economic conditions;. • Risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans and leases; and. • The amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans and leases.. 19. Table of Contents. If actual losses on our loans and leases exceed our estimates used to establish our allowance for loan and lease losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans and leases. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses, we review our loans and leases and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Our allowance for loan and lease losses was 0.74 percent of total loans and leases held-for-investment and 254.53 percent of non-performing loans and leases at December 31, 2017. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further charge-offs (which will in turn also require an increase in the provision for loan losses if the charge-offs exceed the allowance for loan losses), based on judgments different than that of management. Any increases in the provision for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property and declining property values.. At December 31, 2017, $2.11 billion, or 31.7 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment, was secured by SFR mortgage loans and HELOCs, as compared with $2.19 billion, or 36.2 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment, at December 31, 2016. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which will in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of adjustable rate loans.. A substantial majority of our real estate secured loans held are adjustable rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of defaults that may adversely affect our profitability.. Our underwriting practices may not protect us against losses in our loan portfolio.. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices, including: analyzing a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuing collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verifying liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are, and historically have been, appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we have incurred losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer behavior. In addition, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Finally, we may have higher credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral. At December 31, 2017, 82.9 percent of our commercial real estate loans, 90.0 percent of our multifamily loans and 73.2 percent of our originated SFR mortgage loans were secured by collateral in Southern California. Deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in Southern California could result in significantly higher credit losses to our portfolio.. 20. Table of Contents. Our non-traditional and interest only single family residential loans expose us to increased lending risk.. Many of the residential mortgage loans we have originated for investment consist of non-traditional SFR mortgage loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of loan-to-value ratios or debt-to-income ratios, loan terms, loan size (exceeding agency limits) or other exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines. Moreover, many of these loans do not meet the qualified mortgage definition established by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and therefore contain additional regulatory and legal risks. See \"Rulemaking changes by the CFPB in particular are expected to result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.\" In addition, the secondary market demand for nonconforming mortgage loans generally is limited, and consequently, we may have a difficult time selling the nonconforming loans in our portfolio were we to decide to do so.. In the case of interest only loans, a borrower's monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status. Since the borrower's monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount, even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, the borrower might not be able to afford the increased monthly payment. In addition, interest only loans have a large, balloon payment at the end of the loan term, which the borrower may be unable to pay. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. Negative amortization is only permitted up to 110 percent of the original loan to value ratio during the first five years the loan is outstanding, with payments adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents, potentially resulting in higher payments by the borrower. The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments. Also, real estate values may decline, and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their loans to pay off their mortgage obligations. For these reasons, interest only loans and negative amortization loans are considered to have an increased risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure than conforming loans and may result in higher levels of realized losses. Our interest only loans decreased during the year ended December 31, 2017, from $784.4 million, or 13.0 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment, at December 31, 2016 to $717.5 million, or 10.8 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment, at December 31, 2017.. Our income property loans, consisting of commercial real estate and multifamily loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers.. We originate commercial real estate and multifamily loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed in a timely manner or at all, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.. Commercial real estate and multifamily loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and multifamily loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate or multifamily loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial real estate and multifamily loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial real estate and multifamily loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2017, our commercial real estate and multifamily loans totaled $2.53 billion, or 38.0 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment.. 21. Table of Contents. Our portfolio of Green Loans subjects us to greater risks of loss.. We have a portfolio of Green Account home equity loans which generally have a fifteen year draw period with interest only payment requirements, and a balloon payment requirement at the end of the draw period. The Green Loans include an associated \"clearing account\" that allows all types of deposit and withdrawal transactions to be performed by the borrower during the term. We ceased originating new Green Loans in 2011; however, existing Green Loan borrowers are entitled to continue to draw on their Green Loans. At December 31, 2017, the balance of Green Loans in our portfolio totaled $85.8 million, or 1.3 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment.. In 2011, we implemented an information reporting system which allowed us to capture more detailed information than was previously possible, including transaction level data concerning our Green Loans. Although such transaction level data would have enabled us to more closely monitor trends in the credit quality of our Green Loans, we do not possess the enhanced transaction level data relating to the Green Loans for periods prior to the implementation of those enhanced systems. Although we do not believe that the absence of such historical data itself represents a material impediment to our current mechanisms for monitoring the credit quality of the Green Loans, until we compile sufficient transaction level data going forward we are limited in our ability to use historical information to monitor trends in the portfolio that might assist us in anticipating credit problems. Green Loans expose us to greater credit risk than other residential mortgage loans because they are non- amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity.. Although the loans require the borrower to make monthly interest payments, we are also subject to an increased risk of loss in connection with the Green Loans because payments due under the loans can be made by means of additional advances drawn by the borrower, up to the amount of the credit limit, thereby increasing our overall loss exposure due to negative amortization. The balloon payment due on maturity may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Our ability to take remedial actions in response to these additional risks of loss is limited by the terms and conditions of the Green Loans and our alternatives consist primarily of the ability to curtail additional borrowing when we determine that either the collateral value of the underlying real property or the creditworthiness of the borrower no longer supports the level of credit originally extended. Additionally, many of our Green Loans have larger balances than traditional residential mortgage loans, and accordingly, if the loans go into default either during the draw period or at maturity, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with traditional residential loans.. If our investments in other real estate owned are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property is taken in as other real estate owned (OREO), and at certain other times during the asset's holding period. Our net book value (NBV) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value (fair value) of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs. A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in OREO may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional write-downs. Additional write-downs to our investments in OREO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further write-downs. Any increase in our write-downs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had OREO of $1.8 million.. Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may not be sufficient to repay the loan in the event of default.. We make our commercial and industrial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial and industrial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. As of December 31, 2017, our commercial and industrial loans totaled $1.70 billion, or 25.6 percent of our total loans and leases held-for-investment.. 22. Table of Contents. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to real properties which we may acquire.. In prior years, due to weakness of the U.S. economy and, more specifically, the California economy, including higher levels of unemployment than the nationwide average and declines in real estate values, certain borrowers have been unable to meet their loan repayment obligations and, as a result, we have had to initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to and take title to a number of real properties that had collateralized their loans. As an owner of such properties, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur substantial costs for any property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up that may be required due to any environmental contamination that may be found to exist at any of those properties, even though we did not engage in the activities that led to such contamination. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages for environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities or costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.. The recently completed sale of our Banc Home Loans division could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. The sale of our Banc Home Loans division, which we completed on March 30, 2017, involves significant risks. We may not be able to replace the revenues generated by Banc Home Loans or achieve the cost savings and other efficiencies anticipated from this transaction. The transaction also includes reliance on the purchaser to assist with closing Banc Home Loans' remaining pipeline through a transition service agreement. Other conditions outside of our control that could impact the Company's future financial results include, but are not limited to, the ability of the purchaser to successfully transition Banc Home Loans personnel. To the extent the purchaser is unable to retain key loan officers, this could negatively affect the future earn-out consideration we may receive.. Our single family residential mortgage loan origination business is largely dependent on third party brokers, and a change in that business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A majority of our residential mortgage loans are originated through third party mortgage brokers who are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with these brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks.. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings.. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are subject to investor demand for single family residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. Our SFR mortgage loan business strategy is to originate nonconforming jumbo conventional residential mortgage loans. We sell a portion of the single family residential loans that we originate in the secondary market. Originating loans for sale enables us to earn revenue from fees and gains on loan sales, while reducing our credit risk on the loans as well as our liquidity requirements. We also can use the loan sale proceeds to generate new loans. Secondary market demand for nonconforming jumbo loans generally is not as strong as the demand for conventional loans and can be volatile, reducing the demand or pricing for those loans; consequently, we may have a more difficult time selling the nonconforming jumbo loans that we originate or selling them at a price we believe is appropriate. If secondary mortgage market conditions were to deteriorate in the future and we cannot sell loans at our desired levels, our single family loan origination volume may be limited. As a result, our ability to create new relationships and manage our growth, as well as our revenue from loan sales and servicing, would be limited, and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates may change the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which may increase the volatility of our earnings.. As a result of our sales of mortgage loans to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, we have a portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee. We measure and carry all of our residential mortgage servicing rights using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is determined as the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. The primary risk associated with mortgage servicing rights is that in a declining interest rate environment, they will likely lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of the mortgage loans would be reduced. Conversely, these assets generally increase in value in a rising interest rate environment to the extent that prepayments are slower than previously estimated. Consequently, our mortgage servicing rights portfolio may increase the volatility of our earnings. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, our mortgage servicing rights had fair values of $31.9 million and $76.1 million, respectively. Changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights are recorded to earnings in each period. Depending on the interest rate environment, it is possible that the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights may be reduced in the future. If such changes in fair value significantly reduce the carrying value of our mortgage servicing rights, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.. 23. Table of Contents. Any breach of representations and warranties made by us to our residential mortgage loan purchasers or credit default on our loan sales may require us to repurchase residential mortgage loans we have sold.. Prior to the sale of our Banc Home Loans division, we sold a majority of the residential mortgage loans we originated in the secondary market pursuant to agreements that generally require us to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us to the loan purchaser. Any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process, whether by us, the borrower, mortgage broker, or other party in the transaction, or, in some cases, upon any early payment default on such mortgage loans, may require us to repurchase such loans.. We believe that, as a result of the increased defaults and foreclosures during the past several years resulting in increased demand for repurchases and indemnification in the secondary market, many purchasers of residential mortgage loans are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify or repurchase loans and would benefit from enforcing any repurchase remedies they may have. Our exposure to repurchases under our representations and warranties could include the current unpaid balance of all loans we have sold. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we sold residential mortgage loans aggregating $1.88 billion, $5.13 billion and $4.30 billion, respectively. To recognize the potential loan repurchase or indemnification losses, we maintained a total reserve of $6.3 million at December 31, 2017. Increases to this reserve reduce mortgage banking revenue. The determination of the appropriate level of the reserve inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of repurchase and indemnification risks and expected losses. The estimates used could be inaccurate, resulting in a level of reserve that is less than actual losses.. Deterioration in the economy, an increase in interest rates or a decrease in home values could increase customer defaults on loans that were sold and increase demand for repurchases and indemnification and increase our losses from loan repurchases and indemnification. If we are required to indemnify loan purchasers or repurchase loans and incur losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any claims asserted against us in the future by loan purchasers may result in liabilities or legal expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to expand our core deposit base or other low cost funding sources.. We depend on checking, savings and money market deposit account balances and other forms of deposits as the primary source of funding for our lending activities. Our future growth will largely depend on our ability to expand our core deposit base, to provide a less costly and more stable source of funding. It may prove difficult to grow our core deposit base.. During 2016 and the beginning of 2017, an increasingly important source of deposits for the Bank came from products offered by our Institutional Banking business unit, which included a specialized EB-5 escrow product. During 2017, the Institutional Banking business unit was reorganized and this EB-5 escrow product is now offered by our Specialty Market business unit.. As part of the reorganization as well as other factors, including our focus on remixing our total deposit base towards core funding and less towards high rate, high volatility deposits, during 2017 we experienced net deposit outflows from the specialized EB-5 escrow product as well as net deposit outflows from large balance accounts (defined as $100 million or more in balances) primarily in the Institutional Banking business unit.. Additionally, although the Bank continues to reduce its exposure to EB5 escrow balances, escrow triggers associated with the EB-5 escrow product may vary and can be directly influenced by the time associated with adjudication of the investor's immigration petition. For more information, about the EB-5 escrow product see \"Non-compliance with the Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions or operating restrictions.\". While the Bank mitigates this risk by opening post-escrow deposit accounts to continue to hold funds, there is no assurance that these deposits will remain. As the Bank continues to grow its core deposit base and continues to seek to reduce its exposure to high rate, high volatility and large balance accounts, the Bank could continue to experience a deposit outflow, which could negatively impact our business plan, results of operations and liquidity.. In addition to volatility of deposit balances, we anticipate that there will be competitive pressures to pay higher interest rates on deposits, which would increase our funding costs. If depositors move money out of financial institution deposits and into other investments (or into similar products at other institutions that may provide a higher rate of return), we could lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Additionally, any such loss of funds could result in reduced loan originations, which could materially negatively impact our business plan and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $2.58 billion of securities available-for-sale and no securities held-to-maturity, as compared with $2.38 billion of securities available-for-sale and $884.2 million of securities held to maturity as of December 31, 2016.. As of December 31, 2017, securities available-for-sale that were in an unrealized loss position had a total fair value of $579.5 million with unrealized losses of $15.6 million. They consisted of U.S. government agency and GSE residential mortgage-backed securities of $475.0 million with unrealized losses of $15.3 million, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities of $148 thousand with unrealized losses of $1 thousand, and collateralized loan obligations of $104.3 million with unrealized losses of $266 thousand.. As of December 31, 2016, securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity that were in an unrealized loss position had a fair value of $1.12 billion and $136.3 million, respectively, and aggregate unrealized losses of $28.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively.. The Company monitors to ensure it has adequate credit support and, as of December 31, 2017, the Company believes there is no other-than-temporary-impairment (OTTI) and did not have the intent to sell any of its securities in an unrealized loss position and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. The portfolio is evaluated using either OTTI guidance provided by FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 320, Investments-Debt and Equity Securities, or ASC 325, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests that Continue to be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets. Investment securities classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity are generally evaluated for OTTI under ASC 320. However, certain purchased beneficial interests, including non-agency mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, and collateralized debt obligations, that had credit ratings at the time of purchase below AA are evaluated using the model outlined in ASC 325. The non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations in the Company's portfolio referenced above were rated AA or above at purchase and are not within the scope of ASC 325. For more information about ASC 320 and ASC 325, see Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and FASB guidance on fair value accounting. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, stockholders' equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected.. More than 50 percent of our securities portfolio is invested in collateralized loan obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, based on amortized cost, $1.69 billion, or 65.9 percent of our securities portfolio, was invested in collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). By comparison, as of December 31, 2016, based on amortized cost, $1.73 billion, or 52.8 percent of our securities portfolio, was invested in CLOs.. As of December 31, 2017, based on amortized cost, $117.4 million of our CLO holdings were AAA rated and $1.57 billion were AA rated. As of December 31, 2017, there were no CLOs rated below AA and none of the CLOs were subject to ratings downgrade in 2017. All of our CLOs are floating rate, with rates set on a quarterly basis at three month LIBOR plus a spread.. As an investor in CLOs, we purchase specific tranches, or slices, of debt instruments that are secured by professionally managed portfolios of senior secured loans to corporations. CLOs are not secured by residential or commercial mortgages. CLO managers are typically large non-bank financial institutions or banks. CLOs are typically $300 million to $1 billion in size, contain 100 or more loans, and have five to six credit tranches ranging from AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B and equity tranche. Interest and principal are paid out to the AAA tranche first then move down the capital stack. Losses are borne by the equity tranche first then move up the capital stack. CLOs typically have subordination levels that range from approximately 33 percent to 39 percent for AAA, 20 percent to 28 percent for AA, 15 percent to 18 percent for A, 10 percent to 14 percent for BBB.. The CLOs we currently hold may, from time to time, not be actively traded, and under certain market conditions may be relatively illiquid investments, and volatility in the CLO trading market may cause the value of these investments to decline. The market value of CLOs may be affected by, among other things, changes in composition of the underlying loans, changes in the distributions on the underlying loans, defaults and recoveries on the underlying loans, capital gains and losses on the underlying loans (or foreclosure assets), and prepayments on the underlying loans.. Although we attempt to mitigate the credit and liquidity risks associated with CLOs by purchasing CLOs with credit ratings of A or higher and by maintaining a pre-purchase due diligence and ongoing review process by a dedicated credit administration team, no assurance can be given that these risk mitigation efforts will be successful.. 25. Table of Contents. The Volcker Rule covered fund provisions could adversely affect us.. The so-called \"Volcker Rule\" provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations restrict our ability to sponsor or invest in \"covered funds\" (as defined in the implementing regulations). When the implementing regulations were adopted, banking entities such as us were required to conform our covered fund investments and activities by July 21, 2015. However, on December 18, 2014, the FRB extended the conformance period to July 21, 2016, for investments in, and relationships with, covered funds (including non-conforming CLOs) that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. The FRB later extended the conformance period until July 21, 2017. The Volcker Rule excludes from the definition of \"covered fund\" loan securitizations that meet specified investment criteria and do not invest in impermissible assets. Accordingly investments in CLOs that qualify for the loan securitization exclusion are not prohibited by the Volcker Rule. It is our practice to invest only in CLOs that meet the Volcker Rule's definition of permissible loan securitizations and therefore are Volcker Rule compliant. However, the Volcker Rule and its implementing regulations are relatively new and untested, and it is possible that certain CLOs in which we have invested may be found subsequently to be covered funds. If so, we may be required to divest our interest in nonconforming CLOs, and we could incur losses on such divestitures.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may hurt our profits.. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest that we receive on loans and investments than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause our net interest income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because that may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant operational risks.. We operate many different financial service functions and rely on the ability of our employees, third party vendors and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees' execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems.. Our enterprise risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established comprehensive policies and procedures and an internal control framework designed to provide a sound operational environment for the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk (interest rate and price risks), liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, and reputational risk. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our current and future risk management strategies, including risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. In certain instances, we rely on models to measure, monitor and predict risks. However, these models are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which we operate, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. There is no assurance that these models will appropriately capture all relevant risks or accurately predict future events or exposures. Accurate and timely enterprise-wide risk information is necessary to enhance management's decision-making in times of crisis. If our enterprise risk management framework proves ineffective or if our enterprise-wide management information is incomplete or inaccurate, we could suffer unexpected losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets or fail to adequately or timely enhance our enterprise risk framework to address those changes. If our enterprise risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates.. An important aspect of our enterprise risk management framework is creating a risk culture in which all employees fully understand that there is risk in every aspect of our business and the importance of managing risk as it relates to their job functions. We continue to enhance our enterprise risk management program to support our risk culture, ensuring that it is sustainable and appropriate to our role as a major financial institution. Nonetheless, if we fail to create the appropriate environment that sensitizes all of our employees to managing risk, our business could be adversely impacted. For more information on our risk management framework, see \"Governance\" under \"Lending Activities\" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 26. Table of Contents. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, regulatory investigations, marketplace rumors and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to promote ethical conduct and protect our reputation. However, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective and cannot adequately protect against all threats to our reputation. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental oversight.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general.. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. The held-for-sale loan balance in our mortgage banking business represents mortgage loans that are identified for sale by the Company. Loan balances steadily accumulate and then decrease at the time of sale. We fund these balances through short-term funding, including FHLB advances, which require collateral. In the event we experience a significant increase in our held-for-sale loan balances, our liquidity could be negatively impacted if we increase our short-term borrowings and therefore our required collateral. Although we have access to other sources of contingent liquidity, we could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage this risk.. We depend on our key employees.. Our future prospects are and will remain highly dependent on our directors and executive officers. Our success will, to some extent, depend on the continued service of our directors and continued employment of the executive officers. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team, no assurance can be given that these individuals will continue to be employed by us. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively affect our ability to achieve our business plan and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We currently hold a significant amount of bank owned life insurance.. At December 31, 2017, we held $104.9 million of bank owned life insurance (BOLI) on certain key and former employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $104.9 million, as compared with $102.5 million of BOLI, with a cash surrender value of $102.5 million, at December 31, 2016. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies.. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings.. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders' equity could decrease.. At December 31, 2017, we owned $48.7 million in FHLB stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB. Our FHLB's financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets.. 27. Table of Contents. We rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack or cyber theft.. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions.. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third party providers. If our third party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our information security infrastructure or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities in response to continuing information systems security threats.. The occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems.. We rely heavily on third party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our online banking services and data processing systems. We also rely on third party vendors, who may experience unauthorized access to and disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of such information. Any failure or interruption, or breaches in security, of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems and, therefore, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers.. 28. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws, rules and regulations governing our operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. FRB policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities, certain mortgage loans held-for-sale and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. Changes in policies of the FRB are beyond our control and the impact of changes in those policies on our activities and results of operations can be difficult to predict.. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not stockholders. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose increased capital requirements and restrictions on a bank's operations, to reclassify assets, to determine the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan and lease losses and to set the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.. Congress, state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking, lending and other laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation, that applies to us or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or growth prospects. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.. The Dodd-Frank Act and supporting regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for various capital requirements and new restrictions on financial institutions and their holding companies. These changes may result in additional restrictions on investments and other activities.. Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act significantly impact our operations, and we expect to continue to face increased regulation. These regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established the CFPB with broad authority to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by various regulatory agencies. While some rules have been finalized or issued in proposed form, some have yet to be proposed. It is impossible to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be.. We must apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretations of those rules, will reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, require us to change certain of our business practices, increase the regulatory supervision of us, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business.. As of March 31, 2017, the Company's consolidated total assets and the Bank's total assets, exceeded $10 billion for four consecutive quarters (the $10 billion threshold). As a result, we have become subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and a number of additional requirements that impose additional compliance costs on our business and higher expectations from regulators regarding risk management, strategic planning, governance and other aspects of our operations.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, when the total assets of the Company or the Bank exceed $10 billion, as measured as described below, the Company or the Bank, as applicable, will become subject to a number of additional requirements, that will impose additional compliance costs on our business. There are also likely to be higher expectations from regulators regarding risk management, strategic planning, governance and other aspects of our operations.. • Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB has near exclusive supervision authority, including examination authority, to assess compliance with federal consumer financial laws for a bank and its affiliates if the bank's assets exceed the $10 billion threshold.. 29. Table of Contents. • Also under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum ratio of net worth to insured deposits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC was increased from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent and the FDIC is required, in setting deposit insurance assessments, to offset the effect of the increase on smaller institutions, which results in institutions with assets that exceed the $10 billion threshold paying higher assessments. In addition, the FDIC applies the large bank scorecard method to institutions with assets that exceed the $10 billion threshold. The large bank scorecard method uses a performance score and a loss severity score, which are combined and converted into an initial base assessment rate. The performance score is based on measures of a bank's ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress and weighted ratings of under the safety and soundness ratings ascribed under the regulatory rating system and assigned based on a supervisory authority's analysis of a bank's financial statements and on-site examinations. The loss severity score is a measure of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the bank's failure. Under a formula, the performance score and loss severity score are combined and converted to a total score that determines the bank's initial base assessment rate. The FDIC has the discretion to alter the total score based on factors not captured by the scorecard. The resulting initial base assessment rate is also subject to adjustments downward based on long-term unsecured debt issued by the bank, to adjustment upward based on long-term unsecured debt held by the bank that is issued by other FDIC-insured institutions, and to further adjustment upward if the bank's brokered deposits exceed 10 percent of its domestic deposits.. • The Bank also is affected by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act regarding limits on debit card interchange fees. The Durbin Amendment gave the FRB the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more, as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. The FRB has adopted rules under this provision that limit the swipe fees that a debit card issuer can charge a merchant for a transaction to the sum of 21 cents and five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs.. • The Dodd-Frank Act requires a publicly traded bank holding company with $10 billion or more in assets to establish and maintain a risk committee responsible for enterprise-wide risk management practices, comprised of an independent chairman and at least one risk management expert. The risk committee must approve and periodically review the risk management policies of the bank holding company's operations and oversee the operations of its risk management framework. The bank holding company's risk management framework must be commensurate with its structure, risk profile, complexity, activities and size. These requirements began applying to the Company on January 1, 2018.. • A bank holding company with more than $10 billion in assets is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to conduct annual stress tests using various scenarios established by the Federal Reserve, including a baseline, adverse and severely adverse economic conditions (known as Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests or DFAST). The Company became subject to the DFAST regime on January 1, 2018.The stress tests are designed to determine whether the capital planning of the Company, assessment of its capital adequacy and risk management practices adequately protect it and its affiliates in the event of an economic downturn. The Company must establish adequate internal controls, documentation, policies and procedures to ensure the annual stress adequately meets these objectives. The board of directors of the Company must review the Company's policies and procedures at least annually. The Company is required to report the results of its annual stress tests to the OCC and the Federal Reserve, publicly disclose the results and consider the results as part of its capital planning and risk management practices. The Company is planning actions to achieve timely compliance.. As a result of the above, the Bank's deposit insurance assessments are likely to increase, and its interchange fee income will likely decrease. In addition, compliance with the risk management and capital stress testing provisions has required and may continue to require additional staffing, engagement of external consultants and other operating costs. The cumulative effect of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the future financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. 30. Table of Contents. Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB in particular are expected to result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As indicated above, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, an independent federal agency with broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions, their affiliates, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies if the assets of the institution exceed the $10 billion threshold.. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower's ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a \"qualified mortgage\" as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.. The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules which impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan. Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require banks to: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with an \"ability to repay\" test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a \"qualified mortgage,\" in which case a rebuttable presumption exists that the creditor extending the loan has satisfied the ability to repay test; (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for originating and servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, pre-loan counseling, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans for a longer period of time. The new rules include the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rules. The TRID rules contain new requirements and new disclosure forms that are required to be provided to borrowers.. In order to comply with the CFPB rules, we have made significant changes to our residential mortgage business, including investments in technology, training of our personnel, changes in the loan products we offer, changes in compensation of our loan originators and mortgage brokers that do business with us, and a reduction in fees that we charge, We are continuing to analyze the impact that such rules may have on our business. In addition to the exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB's supervisory powers of the CFPB and the primary federal banking regulators entitle them to examine institutions for violations of consumer lending laws even in the absence of consumer complaints or damages. Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB has limited the products we may permissibly offer to some or all of our customers, or limited the terms on which those products may be issued, or may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted. We may also be required to add compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance-related expenses. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.. In July 2013, the FRB and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule to revise their risk-based and leverage capital requirements and their method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with Basel III and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule applies to all banking organizations. Among other things, the rule establishes a common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement of 4.5 percent of risk-weighted assets and a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital requirement of 6.0 percent of risk-weighted assets and assigns higher risk-weightings than in the past (150 percent) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on non-accrual status and certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The final rule also limits a banking organization's capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a \"capital conservation buffer\" in excess of 2.5 percent of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the minimum risk-based capital ratios. The final rule became effective for the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in over a three-year period that began on January 1, 2016 and will end on January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount.. While our current capital levels exceed the capital requirements, our capital levels could decrease in the future as a result of factors such as acquisitions, faster than anticipated growth, reduced earnings levels, operating losses and other factors. The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in our inability to pay dividends or repurchase shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. 31. Table of Contents. We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the CRA and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Non-compliance with the Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions or operating restrictions.. The Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, sanctions or restrictions that could have a material adverse effect on our strategic initiatives. Several banking institutions have received large fines, or suffered limitations on their operations, for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. One aspect of our business that we believe presents risks in this particular area is our specialized EB-5 escrow product, which is intended to facilitate investment transactions under the government approved, EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program, created by Congress in 1990 to stimulate the U.S. economy through U.S. job creation and capital investment by non-resident foreign investors. This program, which is administered by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, provides non-resident alien investors with a method of obtaining conditional, and ultimately permanent, residence through an investment in a new commercial enterprise in the United States that creates at least ten jobs. Escrowing of investment proceeds is commonly offered to give non-resident alien investors comfort that their investment proceeds are being held by an independent third party pending contractual conditions precedent. Furthermore, the escrow funds are eligible for FDIC pass-through insurance until the contractual conditions precedents are met. The Bank began offering EB-5 escrow services in April, 2014. The Bank's EB-5 escrow and related deposits totaled $75.8 million and $297.7 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Although the Bank's exposure to risks generally associated with the federal EB-5 program may be mitigated by the fact that the Bank typically serves in a custodial capacity, EB-5 escrow accounts may pose a higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, as escrow arrangements such as these may facilitate a higher degree of anonymity or, in some cases, involve the handling of high volumes of currency. International wire transfers involving non-resident alien investors likewise may subject the Bank to a higher degree of risk and regulatory scrutiny in this area. While the Bank has procedures in place that are designed to specifically address the compliance-related risks of the EB-5 escrow product, no assurance can be given that these procedures will be effective.. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings.. We may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of December 31, 2020.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on institutions with assets less than $10 billion. To implement the offset requirement, the FDIC has imposed a temporary surcharge on institutions with assets greater than $10 billion. In addition to the minimum reserve ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio. The FDIC has set a designated reserve ratio of 2.0, which exceeds the minimum reserve ratio.. 32. Table of Contents. Our holding company relies on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of its income and the net proceeds of capital raising transactions are currently the primary source of funds for cash dividends to our preferred and common stockholders.. Our primary source of revenue at the holding company level is dividends from the Bank and we also have previously relied on the net proceeds of capital raising transactions as the primary source of funds for cash dividends to our preferred and common stockholders. To the extent we are limited in our ability to raise capital in the future, our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders could likewise be limited, especially if we are unable to increase the amount of dividends the Bank pays to us. The OCC regulates and, in some cases, must approve the amounts the Bank pays as dividends to us. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, then we may not be able to service our debt, including our senior notes, pay our other obligations or pay cash dividends on our preferred and common stock. Our inability to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and the value of your investment in our securities.. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company has a deferred tax asset that may or may not be fully realized.. The Company has a deferred tax asset (DTA) and cannot assure that it will be fully realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed using enacted tax rates. If we determine that we will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax asset, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to establish a full or partial valuation allowance. If we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary, we are required to incur a charge to operations. We regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset will be realized. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires estimates that cannot be made with certainty. At December 31, 2017, the Company had a net DTA of $31.1 million. For additional information, see Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We may experience future goodwill impairment.. If our estimates of the fair value of our reporting units change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that a goodwill impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, estimated cash flows and industry pricing multiples. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of August 31 (the Measurement Date). At each Measurement Date, the Company, in accordance with ASC 350-20-35-3, evaluates, based on the weight of evidence, the significance of all qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units is less than its carrying amount.. The assessment of qualitative factors at the most recent Measurement Date (August 31, 2017) indicated that it was not more likely than not that impairment existed; as a result, no further testing was performed. No assurance can be given that the Company will not record an impairment loss on goodwill in the future and any such impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards and interpretations that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements.. 33. Table of Contents. New lines of business, new products and services, or strategic project initiatives may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results. New lines of business and/or new products or services also could subject us to additional regulatory requirements, increased scrutiny by our regulators and other legal risks.. Additionally from time to time we undertake strategic project initiatives. Significant effort and resources are necessary to manage and oversee the successful completion of these initiatives. These initiatives often place significant demands on a limited number of employees with subject matter expertise and management and may involve significant costs to implement as well as increase operational risk as employees learn to process transactions under new systems. The failure to properly execute on these strategic initiatives could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our markets.. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities.. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10 percent of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10 percent of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years, which is being phased-out through the election of directors to one-year terms starting with our 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders so that the entire Board of Directors will be elected annually starting with our 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10 percent of our common stock without prior approval from the our federal banking regulator.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors.. 34. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations, including our obligations under the senior notes.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be unable to provide new loans, other products or to fund our obligations to existing customers and otherwise implement our business plans, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. As a result, we may be unable to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions of assets or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Our debt level may harm our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1.70 billion of FHLB advances and $172.9 million in senior notes. We also had 280,250 shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because:. • It could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the senior notes;. • A portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes;. • It may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future;. • It may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and. • It may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions by activist stockholders.. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through various corporate actions. Certain activist stockholders have contacted us and made various proposals regarding changes in our corporate governance and the composition of our board of directors. We believe we have had a constructive dialogue with such stockholders. We have added to our board of directors members affiliated with two of our major stockholders, PL Capital Advisors LLC (PL Capital) and Patriot Financial Partners. In addition, we entered into cooperation agreements with PL Capital and another significant stockholder, Legion Partners Asset Management LLC, with a view to working collaboratively to build long-term stockholder value.. However, in the future we may have disagreements with activist stockholders which could prove disruptive to our operations. Activist stockholders could seek to elect their own candidates to our board of directors or could take other actions intended to challenge our business strategy and corporate governance. Responding to actions by activist stockholders may adversely affect our profitability or business prospects, by diverting the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plan. Any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction or strategy arising from activist stockholder initiatives could also cause increased reputational, operational, financial, regulatory and other risks, harm our ability to raise new capital, or adversely affect the market price or increase the volatility of our securities.. 35. Table of Contents. Short sellers of our stock may be manipulative and may drive down the market price of our common stock.. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has borrowed or intends to borrow from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities at a later date to return to the lender. A short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares. Some short sellers may seek to drive down the price of shares they have sold short by disseminating negative reports about the issuers of such shares.. Beginning on October 18, 2016, the Company became aware of certain allegations posted anonymously in various financial blog posts. The authors of the blog posts have typically disclosed that they hold a short position in the Company's stock. Following the posting of the first blog on October 18, 2016, the market price of our common stock initially dropped significantly. While the price of our common stock subsequently increased, additional postings and other negative publicity initiated by the author of the blog and others have led to intense public scrutiny and may cause further volatility in our stock price and a decline in the value of a stockholder's investment in the Company.. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, as ours did initially following the posting of the first blog, it is not unusual for stockholder lawsuits to be filed or threatened against the company and its board of directors and for a company to suffer reputational damage. Multiple lawsuits were in fact threatened against the Company shortly following the posting of the first blog, and as discussed under Item 3 of this report, the first of several putative class lawsuits against the Company was filed on January 23, 2017. These lawsuits, and any other lawsuits, have caused us to incur substantial costs and diverted the time and attention of our board and management, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, reputational damage to the Company may affect our ability to attract and retain deposits and may cause our deposit costs to increase, which could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. Reputational damage may also affect our ability to attract and retain loan customers and maintain and develop other business relationships, which could likewise adversely affect our earnings. Continued negative reports issued by short sellers could also negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees."
