[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.. Deterioration in business or economic conditions generally, or more specifically in the principal markets in which we do business, could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • A decrease in demand for our loan and deposit products;. • An increase in delinquencies and defaults by borrowers or counterparties;. • A decrease in the value of our assets;. • A decrease in our earnings;. • A decrease in liquidity; and. • A decrease in our ability to access the capital markets.. Our enterprise risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating the risks to which we are subject, or in reducing the potential for losses in connection with such risks.. Our enterprise risk management framework is designed to identify and minimize or mitigate the risks to which we are subject, as well as any losses stemming from such risks. Although we seek to identify, measure, monitor, report, and control our exposure to such risks, and employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques in the process, those techniques are inherently limited in their ability to anticipate the existence or development of risks that are currently unknown and unanticipated. The ineffectiveness of our enterprise risk management framework in mitigating the impact of known risks or the emergence of previously unknown or unanticipated risks may result in our incurring losses in the future that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly susceptible to credit risk on our non-covered assets.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of their loans, if any, may be insufficient to ensure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans. We are also subject to credit risk that is embedded in our securities portfolio. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly if economic or market conditions deteriorate. It is difficult to determine the many ways in which a decline in economic or market conditions may impact the credit quality of our assets. The Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement only covers a small percentage of assets, and credit losses on assets not covered by the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses (\"ALLL\") that represents management's estimate of probable incurred losses inherent in our credit portfolio. This estimate requires management to make significant assumptions and involves a high degree of judgment, which is inherently subjective, particularly as our non-covered loan portfolio has not yet developed an observable loss trend through a full credit cycle. Management considers numerous factors in determining the amount of the ALLL, including, but not limited to, historical loss severities and net charge-off rates of BankUnited and other comparable financial institutions, internal risk ratings, loss forecasts, collateral values, delinquency rates, the level of non-performing, criticized, classified and restructured loans in the portfolio, product mix, underwriting and credit administration policies and practices, portfolio trends, concentrations, industry conditions, economic trends and other factors considered by management to have an impact on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient and we may be required to increase our ALLL. In addition, regulatory authorities periodically review our ALLL and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Adverse economic conditions could make management's estimate even more complex and difficult to determine. Any increase in our ALLL will result in a decrease in net income and capital and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Analysis of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of. 12. Table of Contents. Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.\". The FASB has recently issued an ASU that will result in a significant change in how we and other financial institutions recognize credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations or on the industry more broadly.. In June 2016, the FASB issued an ASU, \"Financial Instruments- Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the CECL model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The adoption of the CECL model may materially affect how we determine our ALLL and could require us to significantly increase our ALLL, resulting in an adverse impact to our financial condition, regulatory capital levels and results of operations. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our ALLL. We are not yet able to reasonably estimate the impact that adoption of the CECL model will have on our financial condition, regulatory capital levels or results of operations. The ASU will be effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.. Additionally, uncertainty exists around whether adoption of the CECL model by the financial services industry more broadly will have an impact on loan demand, how loan products are structured, the availability and pricing of credit in the markets or regulatory capital levels for the industry.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.. The credit quality of our loan portfolio and results of operations are affected by residential and commercial real estate values and the level of residential and commercial real estate sales and rental activity.. A material portion of our loans are secured by residential or commercial real estate. The ability of our borrowers to repay their obligations and our financial results may therefore be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. Commercial real estate valuations in particular are highly subjective, as they are based on many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, occupancy rates, the level of rents, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. The properties securing income-producing investor real estate loans may not be fully leased at the origination of the loan. A borrower's ability to repay these loans is dependent upon stabilization of the properties and additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower's successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower's business operations, lead to elevated vacancy rates or lease turnover, slow the execution of new leases or result in falling rents. These factors could result in further deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration in value of some of our loans. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, the level of supply of available housing, governmental policy regarding housing and housing finance and general economic conditions affecting consumers.. We make credit and reserve decisions based on current real estate values, the current conditions of borrowers, properties or projects and our expectations for the future. If real estate values or fundamentals underlying the commercial and residential real estate markets decline, we could experience higher delinquencies and charge-offs beyond that provided for in the ALLL.. Our portfolio of loans secured by taxi medallions is exposed to fluctuations in the demand for taxi services and valuation of the underlying collateral.. We have a portfolio of loans secured by taxi medallions, substantially all of which are in New York City. The introduction of application-based mobile ride-hailing services, such as Uber, has caused a more competitive landscape for these services, resulting in reduced ridership and utilization of taxis and a reduction in the pool of drivers willing to drive taxis. Consequently, the reduced income generated from the operation of taxi medallions has caused significant declines in the market value of. 13. Table of Contents. medallions, increased defaults on loans secured by taxi medallions and an increase in TDRs, due to borrowers' inability to repay these loans at maturity. Management has provided for estimated losses incurred through December 31, 2017; however, further declines in demand for taxi services or further deterioration in the value of medallions may result in higher delinquencies, additional TDRs and losses beyond that provided for in the ALLL.. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs and risks associated with the ownership of commercial or residential real property, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by residential or commercial real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans, in which case, we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including:. • general or local economic conditions;. • environmental cleanup liability;. • neighborhood values;. • interest rates;. • commercial real estate rental and vacancy rates;. • real estate tax rates;. • operating expenses of the mortgaged properties;. • supply of and demand for properties;. • ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties;. • zoning laws;. • governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and. • hurricanes or other natural or man-made disasters.. These same factors may impact the ability of borrowers to repay their obligations that are secured by real property.. Our business is susceptible to interest rate risk.. Our business and financial performance are impacted by market interest rates and movements in those rates. Since a high percentage of our assets and liabilities are interest bearing or otherwise sensitive in value to changes in interest rates, changes in rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different types of rates can have a material impact on our results of operations and the values of our assets and liabilities. Changes in the value of investment securities available for sale and certain derivatives directly impact equity through adjustments of accumulated other comprehensive income and changes in the values of certain other assets and liabilities may directly or indirectly impact earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors over which we have no control and which we may not be able to anticipate adequately, including general economic conditions and the monetary and tax policies of various governmental bodies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board.. Our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The recent persistent low level of market interest rates, flattening of the yield curve and narrow spreads has limited our ability to add higher yielding assets to the balance sheet. If this prolonged period of low rates continues beyond current forecasts, interest rates increase more slowly than expected, the yield curve flattens or inverts, or a negative interest rate environment emerges in the United States,  downward pressure on our net interest margin may be exacerbated, negatively impacting our net interest income in the future. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period of rising rates, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. When interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our deposit products, decrease loan repayment rates and negatively affect borrowers' ability to meet their obligations. A decrease in the general level. 14. Table of Contents. of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. Competitive conditions may also impact the interest rates we are able to earn on new loans or are required to pay on deposits, negatively impacting both our ability to grow deposits and interest earning assets and our net interest income.. We attempt to manage interest rate risk by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, mix and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and through the use of hedging instruments; however, interest rate risk management techniques are not precise, and we may not be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Our ability to manage interest rate risk could be negatively impacted by longer fixed rate terms on loans being added to our portfolio or by unpredictable behavior of depositors in various interest rate environments. A rapid or unanticipated increase or decrease in interest rates, changes in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations.. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and under extraordinary or unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in economic conditions in the geographic markets in which our operations are concentrated or in the financial or credit markets in general. Our access to liquidity in the form of deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors and by competition for deposits in our primary markets. A substantial portion of our liabilities consist of deposit accounts that are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, the majority of our assets are loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and borrowings as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We may not be successful in executing our fundamental business strategy.. Organic growth and diversification of our business are essential components of our business strategy. Commercial and consumer banking, for both loan and deposit products, in our primary markets is highly competitive. Our ability to achieve organic growth is also dependent on economic conditions in our primary markets. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully or profitably execute our organic growth strategy.. While acquisitions have not historically been a primary contributor to our growth, we opportunistically consider potential acquisitions of financial institutions and complementary non-bank businesses. There are risks that may inhibit our ability to successfully execute such acquisitions. We compete with other financial institutions for acquisition opportunities and there are a limited number of candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. Consequently, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions.. If we do identify suitable candidates, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals in order to acquire them. If we do succeed in consummating future acquisitions, acquisitions involve risks that the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenue, earnings, synergies or cash flows or that the other strategic benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized. There may also be unforeseen liabilities relating to the acquired businesses or arising out of the acquisitions, asset quality problems of the acquired entities, difficulty operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited experience and other conditions not within our control, such as adverse personnel relations, loss of customers because of change in identity, and deterioration in local economic conditions.. In addition, the process of integrating acquired entities will divert significant management time and resources. We may not be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably any financial institutions or complementary businesses we may acquire. We may experience disruption and incur unexpected expenses in integrating acquisitions. Any acquisitions we do make may not enhance our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during periods in which the acquisitions are being integrated into our operations.. Lastly, growth, whether organic or through acquisition is dependent on the availability of capital and funding. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of stock or debt securities may be affected by market conditions, economic conditions or regulatory changes. There is no assurance that sufficient capital or funding will be available in the future, upon acceptable terms or at all.. 15. Table of Contents. Risks related to our Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement with the FDIC may result in significant losses.. A significant portion of BankUnited's revenue continues to be derived from the covered assets. The Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement with the FDIC provides that a significant portion of losses related to the covered assets will be borne by the FDIC. Under the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement, we are obligated to comply with certain loan servicing standards, including requirements to participate in loan modification programs. A failure to comply with these standards or other provisions of the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement could result in covered assets losing some or all of their coverage. BankUnited's compliance with the terms of the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement is subject to audit by the FDIC through its designated agent. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. See \"Item 1.  Business - The FSB Acquisition.\". As discussed in \"Item 1. Business - The FSB Acquisition\", the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement is scheduled to terminate as soon as May 2019. At the time of termination, certain aspects of our exit from the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement will be subject to agreement with the FDIC, which may be beyond our control. Commensurate with the termination of the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement, we may sell all or a portion of the remaining covered assets and revenue generated from such covered  assets is expected to cease. Our business, financial condition and results of operations following termination of the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement and the resolution of the related covered assets will be more dependent on our ability to execute on our underlying business strategy.. The geographic concentration of our markets in Florida and the New York metropolitan area makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions.. Unlike some larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our operations are concentrated in Florida and the New York metropolitan area. Additionally, a significant portion of our loans secured by real estate are secured by commercial and residential properties in these geographic regions. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in these regions or by changes in the local real estate markets. Disruption or deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following:. • an increase in loan delinquencies;. • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures;. • a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or. • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.. The effects of adverse weather events such as Hurricanes Irma and Harvey or other natural or man-made disasters may negatively affect our geographic markets or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our geographic markets in Florida and other coastal areas are susceptible to severe weather, including hurricanes, flooding and damaging winds. A significant portion of our loans are to borrowers whose businesses are located in or secured by properties located in the state of Florida, which was impacted by Hurricane Irma in September 2017. In addition, the Bank has a limited number of customers and collateral properties located in areas of Texas that were impacted by Hurricane Harvey in August 2017.. Weather events such as Hurricanes Irma and Harvey, or other natural or man-made disasters or terrorist activities, can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our facilities and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. These events may lead to a decline in loan originations, reduce or destroy the value of collateral for our loans, particularly real estate, negatively impact the business operations of our customers, and cause an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. These events may also lead to a decline in regional economic conditions and prospects in certain circumstances. Our business or results of operations may be adversely impacted by these and other negative effects of such events.. Although we currently believe that Hurricanes Harvey and Irma did not materially impact the ability of the substantial majority of our borrowers to repay their loans, it is premature to conclude with certainty as to the ultimate impact of these hurricanes on our level of loan losses, our business or the results of our operations.. The Bank is generally named as a loss payee on hazard and flood insurance policies covering collateral properties and carries casualty and business interruption insurance. These policies could partially mitigate losses that the Bank may sustain due to the effects of these hurricanes or other natural or man-made disasters that may occur in the future; however, the timing. 16. Table of Contents. and amount of any proceeds that we may recover from insurance policies is uncertain and may not be sufficient to adequately compensate us for losses that we experience due to these hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters.. Our portfolio of assets under operating lease is exposed to fluctuations in the demand for and valuation of the underlying assets.. Our equipment leasing business is exposed to asset risk resulting from ownership of the equipment on operating lease. Asset risk arises from fluctuations in supply and demand for the underlying leased equipment. We are exposed to the risk that, at the end of the lease term or in the event of early termination, the value of the asset will be lower than expected, resulting in reduced future lease income over the remaining life of the asset or a lower sale value. Demand for and the valuation of the leased equipment is sensitive to shifts in general and industry specific economic and market trends, governmental regulations and changes in trade flows from specific events such as natural or man-made disasters. A significant portion of our equipment under operating lease consists of rail cars used directly or indirectly in oil and gas drilling activities. Although we regularly monitor the value of the underlying assets and the potential impact of declines in oil and natural gas prices on the value of railcars on operating lease, there is no assurance that the value of these assets will not be adversely impacted by conditions in the energy industry.. Our reported financial results depend on management's selection and application of accounting policies and methods and related assumptions and estimates.. Our accounting policies and estimates are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Management is required to make difficult, complex or subjective judgments in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies. In some cases, management must select an accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for more information about pending accounting pronouncements that may have a material impact on our reported financial results.. Our internal controls may be ineffective.. Management regularly monitors, evaluates and updates our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the controls are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team. We believe our senior management team possesses valuable knowledge about and experience in the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships could be difficult to replicate. The composition of our senior management team and our other key personnel may change over time. Although our President and Chief Executive Officer has entered into an employment agreement with us, he may not complete the term of his employment agreement or renew it upon expiration. Other members of our senior management team are not subject to employment agreements. Our success also depends on the experience of other key personnel and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve. The loss of service of one or more of our executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.. 17. Table of Contents. We face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may adversely impact our growth or profitability.. The primary markets we currently serve are Florida and the New York metropolitan area. Consumer and commercial banking in these markets is highly competitive. Our markets contain not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks. We compete with other state and national financial institutions located in Florida, New York and adjoining states as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, marketplace lenders, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services.. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates, as well as non-banks, including online providers, to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for certain products and services than we can.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:. • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe and sound banking practices;. • the ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively;. • the ability to expand our market position;. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;. • customer satisfaction with our level of service; and. • industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The inability of BankUnited, Inc. to receive dividends from its subsidiary bank could have a material adverse effect on the ability of BankUnited, Inc. to make payments on its debt, pay cash dividends to its shareholders or execute share repurchases.. BankUnited, Inc. is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and a substantial portion of its revenue consists of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends paid by BankUnited, Inc. on its common stock and the interest and principal payments on its debt. In addition, any stock repurchases made by BankUnited, Inc., including under the share repurchase program announced in January 2018, may depend in whole or in part upon dividends from the Bank. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's depositors and other creditors. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, BankUnited, Inc. might not be able to service its debt, pay its obligations, pay dividends on its common stock or make share repurchases.. We rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely impact the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our results of operations.. The processes we use to forecast future performance and estimate expected credit losses, the effects of changing interest rates, sources and uses of liquidity, cash flows from the covered assets, real estate values, and economic indicators such as unemployment on our financial condition and results of operations depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting tools and models. These tools and models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other. 18. Table of Contents. unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the tools and models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. If these tools prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, our strategic planning processes, earnings and capital may be adversely impacted.. Tax refunds relating to the discrete income tax benefit recognized by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2017 have not yet been finalized by applicable taxing authorities and the Company cannot provide assurances as to when or if they will be received.. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $327.9 million related to a matter that arose during an ongoing audit of the Company's 2013 federal income tax return. The discrete income tax benefit recognized includes expected refunds of federal income tax of $295 million, as well as estimated interest on the federal refund and estimated refunds from certain state and local taxing jurisdictions. Although the Company expects to receive the federal tax refund following completion of the audit and has concluded that the requirements for accounting recognition of the benefit have been met, the Company cannot provide assurances as to when or if it will ultimately receive the refund (or the related state and local refunds) because the IRS has not yet finalized its entire internal process, or provided the Company with a notice of proposed adjustment or revenue agent report and the refund claims are subject to review by the Joint Committee on Taxation. The Company is continuing to evaluate whether it has claims in other state jurisdictions and whether it may have any claims for federal or state income taxes relating to tax years prior to 2012. The Company cannot provide assurances as to when or to what extent it may have any claims relating to such other state and local taxing jurisdictions or in respect of prior tax years. Any delays or failures to receive the federal income tax refund or related refunds from state and local taxing jurisdictions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. Changes in taxes and other assessments may adversely affect us.. The legislatures and taxing authorities in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate regularly enact reforms to the tax and other assessment regimes to which we and our customers are subject. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in December 2017. This legislation made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations. The effects of these changes and any other changes that result from such interpretations and implementing regulations or enactment of additional tax reforms cannot be quantified and there can be no assurance that any such reforms would not have an adverse effect upon our business.. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and relevant governmental taxing authorities, which are sometimes subject to prolonged evaluation periods until a final resolution is reached. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, filing returns and establishing the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities for purposes of its financial statements, the Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. If the judgments, estimates and assumptions the Company uses in establishing provisions, preparing its tax returns or establishing the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities for purposes of its financial statements are subsequently found to be incorrect, there could be a material effect on our results of operations.. Operational Risks. We are subject to a variety of operational, legal and compliance risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders and operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled technology. The occurrence of any of these events could cause us to suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to our reputation.. 19. Table of Contents. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The occurrence of any of these events could result in a diminished ability to operate our business as well as potential liability to customers and counterparties, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems. Systems failures or interruptions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits, provide customer service, facilitate collections and share data across our organization. The failure of these systems could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business infrastructure and information and telecommunications systems.. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure and major systems including, but not limited to, core banking systems such as loan servicing and deposit transaction processing systems, our electronic funds transfer transaction processing, cash management and online banking services. While we select and monitor the performance of third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. In many cases, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of information and the monitoring of a large number of transactions on a minute-by-minute basis, and even a short interruption in service could have significant consequences. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also adversely affect our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us effectively or at all. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.. Failure by us or third parties to detect or prevent a breach in information security or to protect customer privacy could have an adverse effect on our business.. In the normal course of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and / or human errors, or other similar events, especially because, in the case of any intentional breaches, the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and cyber-attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties.. We provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online, via mobile devices and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. In addition to cyber-attacks or other security breaches involving the theft of sensitive and confidential information, hackers recently have engaged in attacks against large financial institutions, particularly denial of service attacks, designed to disrupt key business services such as customer-facing web sites. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. Any cyber-attack or other security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information could severely damage our reputation, erode confidence in the security of our systems, products and services, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, we interact with and rely on financial counterparties for whom we process transactions and who process transactions for us and rely on other third parties, as noted above. Each of these third parties may be targets of the same types of fraudulent activity, computer break-ins and other cyber security breaches described above. The cyber security measures that they maintain to mitigate the risk of such activity may be different from our own, and in many cases we do not have any control over the types of security measures they may choose to implement. We may also incur costs as a result of data or security breaches of third parties with whom we do not have a significant direct relationship. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including us.. We have taken measures to implement safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact. We have a comprehensive set of information security policies and protocols and a dedicated information security division that reports to the Chief Risk Officer, with oversight by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The Risk Committee receives regular reporting related to information security risks and the monitoring and management of those risks.. Failure to keep pace with technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete for loans and deposits, and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. To some degree, our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our larger competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and payment systems, could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services.. The soundness of other financial institutions, particularly our financial institution counterparties, could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, servicing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to an increasing number of financial institutions and counterparties. These counterparties include institutions that may be exposed to various risks over which we have little or no control.. Adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of the financial services industry as a whole and third parties with whom we have important relationships could have a negative impact on our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments.. Reputational risks could affect our results.. Our ability to originate new business and maintain existing customer relationships is highly dependent upon customer and other external perceptions of our business practices. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices could damage our reputation in the customer, funding and capital markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, employee relations, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Adverse developments with respect to external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, or the general economic climate may also adversely impact our reputation. These perceptions about us could cause our business to be negatively affected and exacerbate the other risks that we face. In addition, adverse reputational impacts on third parties with whom we have important relationships may adversely impact our reputation. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. We carefully monitor internal and external developments for areas of potential reputational risk and have established governance structures to assist in evaluating such risks in our business practices and decisions.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and legal requirements that govern almost all aspects of our operations, see Item 1 \"Business - Regulation and Supervision.\" The Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance. 21. Table of Contents. requirements on financial institutions, is an example of this type of federal regulation. Intended to protect customers, depositors, the DIF, and the overall financial stability of the United States, these laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that BankUnited can pay to BankUnited, Inc., restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, and impose specific accounting requirements on us. Banking regulators may also from time to time focus on issues that may impact the pace of growth of our business and operations, such as commercial real estate lending concentrations. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. In addition, federal banking agencies, including the OCC and Federal Reserve Board, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines, remedial actions, administrative orders and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and capital base.. Further, federal, state and local legislators and regulators regularly introduce measures or take actions that would modify the regulatory requirements applicable to banks, their holding companies and other financial institutions. Changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policies could adversely affect the operating environment for the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, increase our cost of doing business, impose new restrictions on the way in which we conduct our operations or add significant operational constraints that might impair our profitability. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure to comply with the business plan filed with the OCC could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy.. In conjunction with the conversion of its charter to that of a national bank, BankUnited was required to file a business plan with the OCC, and is required to update the business plan annually. Failure to comply with the business plan could subject the Bank to regulatory actions that could impede our ability to execute our business strategy. The provisions of the business plan restrict our ability to engage in business activities outside of those contemplated in the business plan or to expand the level of our growth beyond that contemplated in the business plan without regulatory non-objection.. Our ability to expand through acquisition or de novo branching requires regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth.. We may identify opportunities to complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, our financial condition, our future prospects, and the impact of the proposal on U.S. financial stability. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to sell or close branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we may continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly enter into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carries with it numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches may impact our business plans and restrict our growth.. 22. Table of Contents. Financial institutions, such as BankUnited, face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements, and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the sanctions programs and rules administered and enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control.. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we dedicate significant resources to the ongoing execution of our anti-money laundering program, continuously monitor and enhance as necessary our policies and procedures and maintain a robust automated anti-money laundering software solution. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our expansion plans.. We are subject to the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.. The FDIC's restoration plan and any future related increased assessments could adversely affect our earnings.. As a result of economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If the current level of deposit premiums are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements in the future, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures in the future, we may be required to pay FDIC premiums higher than current levels. Any future additional assessments or increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information and any violation of these laws or another incident involving personal, confidential or proprietary information of individuals could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (iii) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be. 23. Table of Contents. mishandled or misused, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under personal information laws and regulations. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to annually conduct a company-run stress test to estimate the potential impact of three macroeconomic scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve on our regulatory capital ratios and certain other financial metrics. The Company is required to publicly disclose a summary of the results of these forward looking, company-run stress tests that assess the impact of hypothetical macroeconomic baseline, adverse and severely adverse economic scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve Board. The stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to limit any dividend or other capital distributions we may make to stockholders or increase our capital levels, modify our business and growth strategies or decrease our exposure to various asset classes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Although the stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition, our customers may misinterpret and adversely react to the results of these stress tests. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
