[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in shares of our common stock involves certain risks. The following risks and other information in this report or incorporated in this report by reference, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" should be carefully considered before investing in shares of our common stock. These risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Many of these risks are out of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing financial results. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operation. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our profitability is dependent on our banking activities.. Because we are a bank holding company, our profitability is directly attributable to the success of our bank subsidiary. Our banking activities compete with other banking institutions on the basis of products, service, convenience and price, among others. Due in part to both regulatory changes and consumer demands, banks have experienced increased competition from other entities offering similar products and services. We rely on the profitability of our bank subsidiary and dividends received from our bank subsidiary for payment of our operating expenses, satisfaction of our obligations and payment of dividends on shares of our common stock. As is the case with other similarly situated financial institutions, our profitability will be subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of funds, changes in the prime lending rate and other interest rates, changes in economic conditions in general, and other factors.. We depend on key personnel for our success.. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our current executive officers and other key personnel. We have an experienced management team that our board of directors believes is capable of managing and growing our business. We do not have employment contracts with our executive officers or, except in limited cases pursuant to acquisitions, key personnel. Losses of or changes in our current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, our ability to retain our current executive officers and other key personnel may be further impacted by existing or new legislation and regulations regarding incentive compensation that is affecting or may affect the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current executive. 21. officers or other key personnel, or hiring additional key personnel to assist in executing our growth, expansion, acquisition and business strategies.. Our operations are significantly affected by interest rate levels.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits, other borrowings, subordinated debentures and subordinated notes. Our business is affected by changes in general interest rate levels and changes in the differential between short-term and long-term interest rates, both of which are beyond our control. An increase in market interest rates on loans is generally associated with a lower volume of loan originations, which may reduce earnings. Following an increase in the general level of interest rates, our ability to maintain a positive net interest spread is dependent on our ability to increase our loan and lease offering rates, replace loan and lease maturities with new originations, minimize increases on our deposit rates, and maintain an acceptable level and mix of funding. Although we have implemented procedures we believe will reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, these procedures may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest income and our net interest margin, asset quality, loan and lease origination volume, liquidity, and overall profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk.. We rely primarily on an earnings simulation model to analyze our interest rate risk and our sensitivity to interest rate changes.  This earnings simulation model projects a baseline net interest income and estimated changes to such baseline from changes in interest rates and incorporates a number of assumptions, including, among others, (i) the expected exercise of call features on various assets and liabilities, (ii) the expected rates at which rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities will reprice, (iii) the expected growth in various interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities and the expected interest rates on such new assets and liabilities, (iv) the expected relative movements in different interest rate indices which are used as the basis for pricing or repricing various assets and liabilities, (v) existing and expected contractual ceiling or floor rates on various assets and liabilities, (vi) expected changes in administered rates on interest bearing transaction, savings, money market and time deposit accounts and the expected impact of competition on the pricing or repricing of such accounts, (vii) the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be received on purchased loans, (viii) the need for additional capital to support continued growth, and (ix) other relevant factors.  These assumptions and inputs into our interest simulation model are difficult to predict.  Should these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, our interest simulation model results may not accurately project our interest rate risk and our sensitivity to interest rate changes.  As a result, we may incur increased or unexpected losses due to changes in interest rates which could materially and adversely affect our net interest income, our net interest margin and our results of operations.. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which may affect our net interest income and net interest margin. Changes in the supply of money and credit can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities. The FRB's policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans and leases. Changes in such policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the effect of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.. Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate.. A large number of our banking offices are located in south central and southeastern portions of the United States. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by changes in the economies of the south central and southeastern states where we currently have most of our banking offices. Slowdown in economic activity in these areas, including deterioration in housing markets or increases in unemployment and under-employment, may have a significant and disproportionate effect on consumer and business confidence and the demand for our products and services, result in an increase in non-payment of loans and leases and a decrease in collateral value, and significantly affect our deposit funding sources. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Our business may suffer if there are significant declines in the value of real estate.. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, we may not be able to realize the. 22. value of the security anticipated when we originated the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our allowance and provision for loan and lease losses and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Most of our foreclosed assets are comprised of real estate properties. We carry these properties at their estimated fair values less estimated selling costs. While we believe the carrying values for such assets are reasonable and appropriately reflect current market conditions, there can be no assurance that the values of such assets will not further decline prior to sale or that the amount of proceeds realized upon disposition of foreclosed assets will approximate the carrying value of such assets. If the proceeds from any such dispositions are less than the carrying value of foreclosed assets, we will record a loss on the disposition of such assets, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to environmental liability risks.. A significant portion of our loan and lease portfolio is secured by real property. In the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to real properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. Additionally, we have acquired a number of retail banking facilities and other real properties, any of which may contain hazardous or toxic substances.  If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. We have policies and procedures that require either formal or informal evaluation of environmental risks and liabilities on real property (i) before originating any loan or foreclosure action, except for (a) loans originated for sale in the secondary market secured by 1-4 family residential properties and (b) certain loans where the real estate collateral is second lien collateral or (ii) prior to the completion of any acquisition of retail banking facilities, real property for future development of retail banking facilities or any other real property, including any real property to be acquired in a merger and acquisition transaction. These policies, procedures and evaluations may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. If we do not properly manage our credit risk, our business could be seriously harmed.. There are substantial risks inherent in making any loan or lease, including, but not limited to  -. •  risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions;. •  risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers;. •  risks inherent from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral; and. •  the risk of non-payment of loans and leases.. Although we attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan and lease underwriting procedures and by monitoring concentrations of our loans and leases, there can be no assurance that these underwriting and monitoring procedures will reduce these risks. Moreover, as we continue to expand into new markets, credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures may need to be adapted to local conditions.  The inability to properly manage our credit risk or appropriately adapt our credit administration and loan and lease underwriting policies and procedures to local market conditions or changing economic circumstances could have an adverse effect on our allowance and provision for loan and lease losses and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We make and hold a significant number of construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential real estate loans in our loan and lease portfolio.. Our loan and lease portfolio is comprised of a significant amount of real estate loans, including a large number of construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans.  Our real estate loans comprised 83.0% of our total loans and leases at December 31, 2016.  In addition, our construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, which are subsets of our real estate loans, comprised 36.4% and 32.0%, respectively, of our total loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2016. Real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, pose different risks than do other types of loan and lease categories. In particular, real estate construction, acquisition and development loans have certain risks not present in other types of loans, including, among others, risks associated with construction cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and risks associated with the ultimate sale, lease or use of the completed construction. If a decline in economic conditions or other issues cause difficulties for our borrowers of these types of loans, if we fail to evaluate the credit of these loans accurately when we underwrite them or if we do not continue to adequately monitor the performance of these loans, our lending portfolio could. 23. experience delinquencies, defaults and credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We believe we have established appropriate underwriting procedures for our real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, and have established appropriate allowances for loan and lease losses to cover the credit risk associated with such loans. However, there can be no assurance that such underwriting procedures are, or will continue to be, appropriate or that losses on real estate loans, including construction/land development and non-farm/non-residential loans, will not require additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We could experience deficiencies in our allowance for loan and lease losses.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents our best estimate of probable losses inherent in our existing loan and lease portfolio. Although we believe that we maintain our allowance for loan and lease losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in our loan and lease portfolio, estimates of loan and lease losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. Our experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of our loans and leases may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan and lease losses occur for many reasons beyond our control. Accordingly, we may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in our allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Additionally, bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan and lease losses or may require recognition of additional loan and lease losses or charge-offs based upon their judgment. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See also Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements included in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of proposed changes to how entities measure and recognize credit impairment, including the effect on the allowance for loan and lease losses.. The performance of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and market conditions, including credit deterioration of the issuers of individual securities.. Our Investment Committee, which reports to the board of directors, has primary responsibility for oversight of investment portfolio functions.  Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or increase unrealized losses in our portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates can materially affect both the returns on and market value of our investment securities. Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions.. Our investment securities portfolio consists of several securities whose trading markets are \"not active.\" As a result, we utilize alternative methodologies for pricing these securities that include various estimates and assumptions. There can be no assurance that we can sell these investment securities at the price derived by these methodologies, or that we can sell these investment securities at all, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We monitor the financial position of the various issues of investment securities in our portfolio, including each of the state and local governments and other political subdivisions where we have exposure. To the extent we have securities in our portfolio from issuers who have experienced a deterioration of financial condition, or who may experience future deterioration of financial condition, the value of such securities may decline and could result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We currently invest in bank owned life insurance (\"BOLI\") and may continue to do so in the future.. We had $581 million in general, hybrid and separate account BOLI contracts at December 31, 2016. BOLI is an illiquid long-term asset that provides tax savings because cash value growth and life insurance proceeds are not taxable. However, if we needed additional liquidity and converted the BOLI to cash, such transaction would be subject to ordinary income tax and applicable penalties. We are also exposed to the credit risk of the underlying securities in the investment portfolio, and to the insurance carrier provider credit risk (in a general account contract). If BOLI was exchanged to another carrier, additional fees would be incurred and a tax-free exchange could only be done for insureds that were still actively employed by us at that time. There is interest rate risk relating to the market value of the underlying investment securities associated with the BOLI in that there is no assurance that the. 24. market value of these securities will not decline. Investing in BOLI exposes us to liquidity, credit and interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models and tools.. The processes we use to estimate probable credit losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other measures of our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models and tools.  These models and tools reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances.  Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models and tools may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation Any such failure in our analytical or forecasting models and tools could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results.. We may not be able to grow our business at the same rate of growth achieved in recent years or even grow our business at all. Additionally, in the future we may not have the benefit of several factors that have been favorable to our business in past years, such as an interest rate environment where changes in rates occur at a relatively orderly and modest pace, the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities, or otherwise to capitalize on opportunities presented by economic turbulence, or other factors and conditions. Numerous factors, such as weakening or deteriorating economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition may impede or restrict our ability to expand our market presence and could adversely affect our future operating results.. To successfully implement our growth strategy, we must expand our operations in both new and existing markets.. We intend to continue the expansion and development of our business by pursuing our growth and de novo branching strategy. Accordingly, our growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by banking companies pursuing growth strategies. In order to successfully execute our growth strategy, we must, among other things:. •  identify and expand into suitable markets;. •  obtain regulatory and other approvals;. •  identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices;. •  attract and retain qualified bank management and staff;. •  build a substantial customer base;. •  expand our loan portfolio while maintaining credit quality;. •  attract sufficient deposits and capital to fund anticipated loan and lease growth;. •  maintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital; and. •  maintain sufficient qualified staffing and infrastructure to support growth and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements.. In addition to the foregoing factors, there are considerable costs involved in opening banking offices, and such new offices generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some time. Therefore, any new banking offices we open can be expected to negatively affect our operating results until those offices reach a size at which they become profitable. We could also experience an increase in expenses if we encounter delays in opening any new banking offices. Moreover, we cannot give any assurances that any new banking offices we open will be successful, even after they have become established, or that we can hire and retain qualified bank management and staff to achieve our growth and profitability goals. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, future prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors or the cash needs for expansion and other corporate activities.. Liquidity represents an institution's ability to provide funds to satisfy demands from depositors, borrowers and other creditors by either converting assets into cash or accessing new or existing sources of incremental funds. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we may be unable to satisfy current or future funding requirements and needs. The ALCO Committee (\"ALCO\"), which reports to the board of directors, has primary responsibility for oversight of our liquidity, funds management, asset/liability (interest rate risk). 25. position and capital.  Our Investment Committee, which reports to the board of directors, has primary responsibility for oversight of our investment portfolio functions.. The objective of managing liquidity risk is to ensure that our cash flow requirements resulting from depositor, borrower and other creditor demands are met, as well as our operating cash needs, and that our cost of funding such requirements and needs is reasonable. We maintain an asset/liability and interest rate risk policy and a liquidity and funds management policy, including a contingency funding plan that, among other things, include procedures for managing and monitoring liquidity risk.  Generally we rely on deposits, repayments of loans and leases and cash flows from our investment securities as our primary sources of funds. Our principal deposit sources include consumer, commercial and public funds customers in our markets. We have used these funds, together with wholesale deposit sources such as brokered deposits, along with Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas (\"FHLB\") advances, federal funds purchased and other sources of short-term borrowings, to make loans and leases, acquire investment securities and other assets and to fund continuing operations.. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, general economic and market conditions and other factors. Loan and lease repayments are a relatively stable source of funds but are subject to the borrowers' and lessees' ability to repay loans and leases, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups or specific businesses, declines in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and other factors. Furthermore, loans and leases generally are not readily convertible to cash. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet growth in loans and leases, deposit withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such secondary sources include FHLB advances, brokered deposits, secured and unsecured federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, FRB borrowings and/or accessing the capital markets.. We anticipate we will continue to rely primarily on deposits, loan and lease repayments, and cash flows from our investment securities to provide liquidity. Additionally, where necessary, the secondary sources of borrowed funds described above will be used to augment our primary funding sources. If we are unable to access any of these secondary funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet our customers' or creditors' needs, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. We use brokered deposits which may be an unstable and/or expensive deposit source to fund earning asset growth.. We use brokered deposits, subject to certain limitations and requirements, as a source of funding to augment deposits generated from our branch network, which are our principal source of funding.  Our board of directors has established policies and procedures with respect to the use of brokered deposits.  Such policies and procedures require, among other things, that (i) we limit the amount of brokered deposits as a percentage of total deposits and (ii) our ALCO monitor our use of brokered deposits on a regular basis, including interest rates and the total volume of such deposits in relation to our total liabilities.  ALCO has typically approved the use of brokered deposits when such deposits are (i) from respected and stable funding sources and (ii) less costly to us than the marginal cost of additional deposits generated from our branch network.  At December 31, 2016 we had $1.99 billion in brokered deposits.  In the event that our funding strategies call for the use of brokered deposits, there can be no assurance that such sources will be available, or will remain available, or that the cost of such funding sources will be reasonable.  Additionally, should our bank subsidiary no longer be considered well-capitalized, our ability to access new brokered deposits or retain existing brokered deposits could be affected by market conditions, regulatory requirements or a combination thereof, which could result in most, if not all, brokered deposit sources being unavailable.  The inability to utilize brokered deposits as a source of funding could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when needed.. Federal and state bank regulators require us, and our bank subsidiary, to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. At December 31, 2016, our bank holding company and our bank subsidiary regulatory capital ratios were at \"well-capitalized\" levels under regulatory guidelines. However, our business strategy calls for continued growth in our existing banking markets (through currently operating offices, opening additional offices and making additional acquisitions) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise.  Growth in assets at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase capital. If our capital ratios were to fall below \"well-capitalized\" levels, the FDIC insurance assessment rate would increase until capital is restored and maintained at a \"well-capitalized\" level.  Additionally, should our capital ratios fall below \"well-capitalized\" levels, certain funding sources could become more costly or could cease to be available to us until such time as capital is restored and maintained at a \"well-capitalized\" level.  A higher assessment rate resulting in an increase in FDIC insurance premiums, increased cost of funding or loss of funding sources could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 26. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. As a publicly traded company, a likely source of additional funds is the capital markets, accomplished generally through the issuance of equity, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts or stock purchase units, and the issuance of senior debt or subordinated debentures. Our ability to raise additional capital, including senior debt or subordinated debentures, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the equity and/or debt markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.. We cannot assure you that access to such capital and liquidity will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank subsidiary or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and/or debt and, in turn, our liquidity. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand through internal growth or acquisitions or to continue operations could be impaired.. We and/or the holders of certain classes of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.. The ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and the Bank, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will not receive adverse changes in our ratings in the future, which could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding, and the way in which we are perceived in the capital markets. Actual or anticipated changes, or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, could affect the market value and liquidity of our securities, increase our borrowing costs and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.. We may be adversely affected by risks associated with completed or any potential future acquisition.. We plan to continue to grow our business organically. However, we have pursued and expect to pursue additional acquisition opportunities in the future that we believe support our business strategy and may enhance our profitability. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, among others:. •  incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. •  using inaccurate estimates, assumptions and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. •  the risk that the acquired business will not perform to our expectations;. •  difficulties, inefficiencies or cost overruns in integrating and assimilating the organizational cultures, operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired business with ours;. •  the risk of key vendors not fulfilling our expectations or not accurately converting data;. •  entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience;. •  the potential loss of key employees, vendors, customers and deposits of the acquired business;. •  the potential for liabilities, claims and/or other contingencies arising out of the acquired business, and. •  the risk of not receiving required regulatory approvals or such approvals being restrictively conditional.. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unknown or contingent liabilities with no corresponding accounting reserve or allowance, exposure to unexpected asset quality problems that require write downs or write-offs (as well as restructuring and impairment or other charges), difficulty retaining key employees and customers and other issues that could negatively affect our business. We may not be able to realize any projected cost savings, synergies or other benefits associated with any such acquisition we complete. Acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and diluted earnings per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisition. Failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations could increase our operating costs significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. We must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions prior to completing any acquisition, including, in certain cases, federal and state regulatory approval. Bank regulators consider a number of factors when determining whether to approve a proposed transaction, including the effect of the transaction on financial stability and the ratings and compliance history of all institutions involved, including the CRA, examination results and AML and BSA compliance records of all institutions involved. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals has become increasingly more difficult which could affect our acquisition strategy. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all.. In addition, we face significant competition from numerous other financial services institutions, some of which will have greater financial resources than we do, when considering acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any potential future acquisitions.. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we could be required to record impairment charges.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the acquisition cost exceeds the fair value of net assets we acquire in an acquisition.  We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value might be impaired.  At December 31, 2016 our goodwill totaled $660 million.  While our previous evaluations of goodwill have not resulted in any impairment charges or write downs of our goodwill, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The value of our deferred tax asset could be reduced if corporate tax rates in the U.S. are decreased.. There have been recent discussions by the executive branch of the national administration regarding potentially decreasing the U.S. corporate tax rate. While we may benefit in some respects from any decreases in corporate tax rates, any reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate would result in a decrease to the value of our net deferred tax asset, which totaled $104 million at December 31, 2016, and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Systems conversions of acquired banks may be difficult.. After we acquire a financial institution, the various operating systems must be converted, in most cases, to our operating systems. These systems conversions require personnel with unique and specialized skills and require a significant amount of planning, coordination and effort of internal resources and third-party vendors. Our inability to hire or retain individuals with the appropriate skills or to effectively plan, coordinate and manage these systems conversions or any failure to effectively implement these systems conversions could have serious negative customer impact, exposing us to reputational risk and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We face strong competition in our markets.. Competition in many of our banking markets is intense. We compete with other financial and bank holding companies, state and national commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, credit unions, securities brokerages, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, leasing companies, money market mutual funds, asset-based non-bank lenders and other financial institutions and intermediaries, as well as non-financial institutions offering payroll, debit card and other services. Some of these competitors have an advantage over us through greater financial resources, lending limits and larger distribution networks, and may be able to offer a broader range of products and services. Other competitors, many of which are smaller, are privately-held and thus benefit from greater flexibility than we have in adopting or modifying growth or operational strategies. If we fail to compete effectively for deposits, loans, leases and other banking customers in our markets, we could lose substantial market share, suffer a slower growth rate or no growth and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial stability of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to various counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and correspondent banks, and others. As a result, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may result in market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by such other institutions. Such occurrences could expose us to credit risk in the event of default of one or more counterparties and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. 28. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into certain transactions, we rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements, credit reports, tax returns and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, tax returns or other financial information could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results.. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon consumer and other external perceptions of our business practices and/or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices and/or financial health could damage our reputation, leading to difficulties in originating and retaining loans, leases and deposits. Adverse developments or other external perceptions regarding the practices of competitors, or the industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. In addition, adverse reputational effects on third parties with whom we have important relationships may also adversely affect our reputation. Adverse effects on our reputation, or the reputation of the industry, may also result in greater regulatory and/or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws or regulations that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products and services we offer. Adverse reputational effects or events may also increase litigation risk. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives, financial conditions, results of operations or liquidity.. We may be subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.. From time to time as part of our normal course of business, customers may make claims and take legal action against us based on actions or inactions related to the fiduciary responsibilities of our bank subsidiary's Trust and Wealth Management Division. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect our market reputation or our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims and litigation asserting lender liability.. From time to time, and particularly during periods of economic stress, customers, including real estate developers, may make claims or otherwise take legal action pertaining to performance of our responsibilities. These claims are often referred to as \"lender liability\" claims and are sometimes brought in an effort to produce or increase leverage against us in workout negotiations or debt collection proceedings. Lender liability claims frequently assert one or more of the following allegations: breach of fiduciary duties, fraud, economic duress, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and similar claims. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a favorable manner, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market reputation, products and services, as well as potentially affecting customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability, including our ability to fully deploy and leverage the technology applications under development from our OZRK Labs group which we acquired in our C1 transaction, to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies and greater privacy and security protection for customers and their personal information. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could impair our ability to retain or acquire new business and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we are subject to claims of third-party intellectual property rights.. We utilize, to varying degrees in our business, certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, including those created by our OZRK Labs group.  If we are unable to. 29. protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including any technology applications developed by our OZRK Labs group, our competitors may be able to duplicate our technology and products. To the extent that we do not effectively protect our proprietary intellectual property through patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. In addition, we may unintentionally infringe on claims of third-party patents, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. Third-party intellectual rights, valid or not, may also impede our deployment of the full scope of our products and service capabilities, including our OZRK Labs technology applications, in all of the market areas in which we operate or market our products and services. The intellectual property of an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. Such acquisitions, however, are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent on licenses from third parties, that the acquired business infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the acceptance in the marketplace that we may have anticipated.  Any inability to protect our intellectual property or any claims of third-party intellectual property rights may negatively affect our business, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. In some instances, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or technology infringe or otherwise violate their intellectual property or proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, services or technology. Any of these third parties could bring an infringement claim against us with respect to our products, services or technology. We may also be subject to third-party infringement, misappropriation, breach or other claims with respect to copyright, trademark, license usage or other intellectual property rights. In addition, in recent years, individuals and groups, including patent holding companies, have been purchasing intellectual property assets in order to make claims of infringement and attempt to extract settlements from companies in the banking and financial services industry. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities including damage awards, result in an injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our services, require us to redesign affected products or services, or require us to seek licenses and pay royalties which may only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all, any of which could harm our business and results of operations.. We are involved in legal proceedings and may be the subject of additional litigation and/or investigations in the future.. The nature of our business ordinarily results in a certain amount of litigation and investigations by government agencies having oversight over our business.  Although we have developed policies and procedures to minimize the impact of legal noncompliance and other disputes and endeavored to provide reasonable insurance coverage, litigation, government investigations and regulatory actions present an ongoing risk.. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, our directors, management or employees, including remedies or damage awards. On at least a quarterly basis, we assess our liabilities and contingencies in connection with outstanding legal proceedings as well as certain threatened claims (which are not considered incidental to the ordinary conduct of our business) utilizing the latest and most reliable information available. For matters where a loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be estimated, no accrual is established. For matters where it is probable we will incur a loss and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we establish an accrual for the loss. Once established, the accrual is adjusted periodically to reflect any relevant developments. The actual cost of any outstanding legal proceedings or threatened claims, however, may turn out to be substantially higher than the amount accrued. Further, our insurance may not cover all litigation, other proceedings or claims, or the costs of defense. Future developments could result in an unfavorable outcome for any existing or new lawsuits or investigations in which we are, or may become, involved, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding pending legal proceedings and any government investigations.. We are subject to a variety of systems failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. Our internal operations are subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to, information systems failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts, data piracy or natural disasters.  We maintain a system of internal controls and security to mitigate the risks of many of these occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for certain risks.  However, should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, and is uninsured against or in excess of applicable insurance limits, such occurrence could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Any damage or failure of our information. 30. systems and technology infrastructure that causes an interruption in service could also have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the information systems and technology infrastructure against damage from physical and cyber security breaches and other disruptions caused by internal and external forces. Cyber security incidents and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our information systems and networks, which may result in significant liability and reputation risk, and may deter potential customers.  We proactively monitor our network and deploy appropriate security personnel, processes and technologies to identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover from damage or unauthorized access to our information systems and network.  However, there can be no assurance that these security measures or operational procedures will be completely successful against every threat, every time. New developments or advances in computer capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography could enable malicious threat actors to circumvent the security measures we use to protect our data and our customers' data. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  Additionally, our risk and exposure to cyber threats and other information security breaches is heightened due to the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking delivery channels for products and services.  Any failure to maintain adequate security over our information systems, our technology-driven products and services or our customers' personal and transactional information could negatively affect our business and our reputation and result in fines, penalties, or other costs, including litigation expense and/or additional compliance costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We rely on certain third-party vendors.. We are reliant upon certain third-party vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or service level agreements. We maintain a system of policies and procedures designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor's organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor's financial condition, (iii) changes in existing products and services or the introduction of new products and services, and (iv) changes in the vendor's support for existing products and services. While we believe these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with applicable contractual arrangements or the service level agreements could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition and results of operations.. Reductions in interchange fees and the effects of the Durbin Amendment may reduce our non-interest income.. An interchange fee is a fee merchants pay to the interchange network in exchange for the use of the network's infrastructure and payment facilitation, and which is paid to debit, credit and prepaid card issuers, including the Company, to compensate them for the costs associated with card issuance and operation. In the case of credit cards, this includes the risk associated with lending money to customers. Merchants, trying to decrease their operating expenses, have sought to, and have had some success at, lowering interchange rates. In particular, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act limited the amount of interchange fees that may be charged for debit and prepaid card transactions and is applicable to financial institutions whose total assets exceed $10 billion.  We estimate that had we been subject to the Durbin Amendment during 2016, our interchange fee revenue would have been reduced by approximately $7.4 million. Effective July 1, 2017, we will be subject to the Durbin Amendment and, as a result, our interchange fee income will be reduced beginning in the third quarter of 2017 and thereafter.. Recent events and actions indicate a continuing focus on interchange fees by both regulators and merchants. Beyond pursuing litigation, legislation and regulation, merchants are also pursuing alternate payment platforms as a means to lower payment processing costs. To the extent interchange fees are further reduced, our non-interest income from those fees will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the payment card industry is subject to the operating regulations and procedures set forth by payment card networks, and our failure to comply with these operating regulations, which may change from time to time, could subject us to various penalties, fines or fees and/or the termination of our license to use the payment card networks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Natural disasters may adversely affect us.. Our operations and customer base are located in markets where natural disasters, including tornadoes, severe storms, fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes often occur. Such natural disasters could significantly impact the local population and economies and our business, and could pose physical risks to our properties. Although our banking offices are geographically dispersed primarily throughout the south central and southeastern portions of the United States and we maintain insurance coverages for such events, a significant natural disaster in or near one or more of our markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 31. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INDUSTRY. We are subject to extensive government regulation that limits or restricts our activities and could adversely affect our operations.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends on shares of our common stock, mergers and acquisitions, investments, interest rates charged for loans and leases, interest rates paid on deposits, locations of banking offices and various other activities and aspects of our operations. We are also subject to capital guidelines established by regulators which require maintenance of adequate capital. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC's DIF rather than shareholders. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations issued by the SEC and NASDAQ, as well as numerous other recently enacted statutes and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of maintaining our internal controls.. Government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, and increases our costs of complying with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the failure to comply with these various rules and regulations could subject us to monetary penalties or sanctions or otherwise expose us to reputational risk and could adversely affect our results of operations.. Newly enacted and proposed legislation and regulations may affect our operations and growth.. To address turbulence in the U.S. economy and the banking and financial markets, the U.S. government has enacted a series of laws, regulations, guidelines and programs, many of which are discussed under the section \"Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may affect the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, may include, among others:. •  a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards;. •  an increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies;. •  the limitation on our ability to raise qualifying regulatory capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities are no longer included in Tier 1 capital; and. •  the limitations on our ability to offer certain consumer products and services due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations.. Examples of provisions include, but are not limited to:. •  creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council that may recommend to the FRB increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity;. •  application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies;. •  changes to the assessment base used by the FDIC to assess insurance premiums from insured depository institutions and increases to the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF with provisions to require institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more to bear a greater portion of the costs associated with increasing the DIF's reserve ratio;. •  establishment of the CFPB with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws;. •  implementation of risk retention rules for loans (excluding qualified residential mortgages) that are sold by a bank; and. 32. •  amendment of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, give the FRB the authority to issue rules limiting debit card interchange fees.. Further, we have been and will continue to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act as a result of our total assets exceeding $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has exclusive rulemaking and examination authority, and primary enforcement authority for most federal consumer financial laws. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. Compliance with any such new regulations will likely increase our cost of operations. Failure to comply with these new requirements, among others, may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, in the routine course of regulatory oversight, proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of, and federal insurance premiums paid by, banks and other financial institutions and companies that control financial institutions are frequently raised in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and before bank regulatory authorities. The likelihood of significant changes in laws and regulations in the future and the effect that such changes might have on our operations are impossible to determine. Similarly, proposals to change the accounting and financial reporting requirements applicable to banks and other depository institutions are frequently raised by the SEC, the federal banking agencies and other authorities. Further, federal intervention in financial markets and the commensurate effect on financial institutions may adversely affect our rights under contracts with such other institutions and the way in which we conduct business in certain markets. The likelihood and impact of any future changes in these accounting and financial reporting requirements and the effect these changes might have on our business and operations are also impossible to determine at this time.. We are subject to heightened regulatory requirements as a result of our total assets exceeding $10 billion.. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the FRB's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might affect our business.  Compliance with these requirements will necessitate that we hire additional compliance or other personnel, design and implement additional internal controls and risk management processes and incur other significant expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Unfavorable results from future stress tests may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or require us to raise capital.. Pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd Frank Act, we will be required to submit our first annual stress test results to appropriate federal regulators by July 31, 2018.  This stress test uses three economic and financial scenarios generated by the FRB, including a baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios.  A summary of the results of certain aspects of our stress test will be released publicly.  We will also be required to disclose publicly a summary of the Company and Bank stress test results under the severely adverse scenario.  We cannot predict whether our results will be satisfactory or we will remain well-capitalized under all these stress test scenarios.  Should our results be unsatisfactory or we are no longer well-capitalized under any of the scenarios, we may experience difficulty in retaining existing customers or otherwise growing our business which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Additionally, our regulators could require us to raise additional capital, impose restrictions on us or take other action based on the stress test results.  Such restrictions or actions could negatively affect our business operations and strategies and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  Any requirement to raise additional capital may be difficult depending on market conditions then existing and may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. Consumers may decide not to use community banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete, through alternative methods and delivery channels, financial transactions that historically have involved community banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as local bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds with an Internet-only bank, or with virtually any bank in the country through online or mobile banking. Consumers can also complete transactions such as purchasing goods and services, paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from. 33. those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower-cost deposits as a source of funds could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK. The price of our common stock is affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock at times and prices they find attractive. Our common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things:. •  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. •  recommendations or changes in recommendations by securities analysts;. •  operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. •  news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry;. •  perceptions in the marketplace about us and/or our competitors;. •  new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. •  significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; and. •  changes in governmental regulations.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events such as economic slowdowns, expected or incurred interest rate changes, credit loss trends and various other factors and events could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to common shareholders in the future.. Our shareholders are only entitled to receive dividends on our common stock as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared such dividends, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the restrictions set forth in Arkansas law, by our federal regulator, and by certain covenants contained in the indentures governing our trust preferred securities, our subordinated debentures and our subordinated notes.. Our principal business operations are conducted through our bank subsidiary.  Cash available to pay dividends to our common shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid by our bank subsidiary. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our common shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of our bank subsidiary and by certain legal and regulatory restrictions.  Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive than regulatory requirements with respect to our payment of dividends to common shareholders. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends to our common shareholders in the future.  See Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements under \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of dividend restrictions.. Certain state and/or federal laws may deter potential acquirers and may depress our stock price.. Certain provisions of federal and state laws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Under certain federal and state laws, a person, entity, or group must give notice to applicable regulatory authorities before acquiring a significant amount, as defined by such laws, of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of our common stock. Regulatory authorities review a potential acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The applicable regulatory authorities will then act on the notice, taking into account the resources of the potential acquirer, the potential antitrust effects of the proposed acquisition and numerous other factors. As a result, these statutory provisions may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in such shareholder's best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders.. 34. The holders of our subordinated debentures and subordinated notes have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders and any future debt or preferred equity securities we may offer may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. At December 31, 2016, we had an aggregate of $118 million of floating rate subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities outstanding. We guarantee payment of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities, and the subordinated debentures are senior to shares of our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on shares of our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures would receive a distribution from our available assets before any distributions could be made to the holders of common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debentures and the related trust preferred securities for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock.. At December 31, 2016, we had an aggregate principal amount of $225 million of subordinated notes which are senior to shares of our common stock.  In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated notes would receive a distribution from our available assets before any distribution could be made to the holders of common stock.. We may from time to time issue debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, borrow money through other means, or issue preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of our shareholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding-up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors.. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock may be less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. Future issuances of additional equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholders' equity ownership.. We may determine from time to time to issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions.  Further, we may issue stock options, grant restricted stock awards or other stock grants to retain, compensate and/or motivate our employees and directors.  These issuances of our securities could dilute the voting and economic interests of existing shareholders.. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to acquire other banks and/or bank holding companies may result in dilution for existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. In connection with our growth strategy, we have issued, and may issue in the future, shares of our common stock to acquire additional banks, bank holding companies, and/or other businesses related to the financial services industry. Resales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market and the potential of such sales could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.. Our common stock is not an insured deposit.. Shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in shares of our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested.. 35"
