[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report.  The risks described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, capital levels, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.  The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose some or all of your investment.  The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements.  This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend.. Our operations are significantly affected by national and regional economic conditions.  Weakness in the national economy or the economies of the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We provide banking and financial services primarily to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington, Oregon, California and Idaho.  All of our branches and most of our deposit customers are also located in these four states.  Further, as a result of a high concentration of our customer base in the Puget Sound area and eastern Washington state regions, the deterioration of businesses in these areas, or one or more businesses with a large employee base in these areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.  Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade and it is not known how the withdrawal by the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may also affect these businesses.  In addition, adverse weather conditions as well as decreases in market prices for agricultural products grown in our primary markets can adversely affect agricultural businesses in our markets.  As we expand our presence in areas such as San Diego and Sacramento, and throughout California, we will be exposed to concentration risks in those areas as well.. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve, in particular the Puget Sound area of Washington State, the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, Spokane, Washington, Boise, Idaho, Eugene and southwest Oregon, San Diego and Sacramento, California and the agricultural regions of the Columbia Basin, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:. • demand for our products and services may decline;. • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease.. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate.  Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan.  Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters such as earthquakes and tornadoes.. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law in December 2017 reforming the U.S. tax code.  The legislation includes lowering the 35% corporate tax rate to 21%, modifying the U.S. taxation of income earned outside the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various deductions, tax credits and/or other tax preferences.  While we expect to benefit on a prospective net income basis from the decrease in corporate tax rates, the legislation has resulted in a $42.6 million decrease in the value of our deferred tax asset, which resulted in a material reduction to net income during the year ended December 31, 2017.  The decrease to the deferred tax asset, also reduced regulatory capital, although to a lesser extent since the deferred tax asset associated with net operating losses was previously being excluded from regulatory capital.  In addition, the legislation could negatively impact our customers because it lowers the existing caps on mortgage interest deductions and limits the state and local tax deductions.  These changes could make it more difficult for borrowers to make their loan payments, could also negatively impact the housing market, which could adversely affect our business and loan growth.. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss.. In addition to first-lien one- to four -family residential real estate lending, we originate construction and land loans, commercial and multifamily mortgage loans, commercial business loans, agricultural mortgage loans and agricultural loans, and consumer loans, primarily within our market areas.  We had $6.75 billion outstanding in these types of higher risk loans at December 31, 2017 compared to $6.64 billion at December 31, 2016.  These loans typically present different risks to us for a number of reasons, including those discussed below:. 23. • Construction and Land Loans. At December 31, 2017, construction and land loans were $907.5 million or 12% of our total loan portfolio.  This type of lending contains the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project.  Changes in demand for new housing and higher than anticipated building costs may cause actual results to vary significantly from those estimated.  If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project.  If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment.  In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences.  Loans on land under development or held for future construction also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral.  These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand.  As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest.  As a result of the recent improvement in real estate values in certain of our market areas, this category of lending has increased significantly in recent years and our investment in construction and land loans increased by $84.4 million or 10% in 2017.  At December 31, 2017, construction and land loans that were non-performing were $1.1 million, or 4% of our total non-performing loans.. • Commercial and Multifamily Real Estate Loans.  At December 31, 2017, commercial and multifamily real estate loans were $3.54 billion, or 47% of our total loan portfolio.  These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan.  Repayment of these loans is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions.  In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity.  Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.  At December 31, 2017, commercial and multifamily real estate loans that were non-performing were $10.6 million, or 39% of our total non-performing loans.. • Commercial Business Loans.  At December 31, 2017, commercial business loans were $1.28 billion, or 17% of our total loan portfolio.  Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.  The borrowers' cash flow may prove to be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.  Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or real estate.  In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers.  Other collateral securing loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise, may be illiquid and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.  At December 31, 2017, commercial business loans that were non-performing were $3.4 million, or 13% of our total non-performing loans.. • Agricultural Loans.  At December 31, 2017, agricultural loans were $338.4 million, or 4% of our total loan portfolio.  Agricultural lending involves a greater degree of risk and typically involves higher principal amounts than other types of loans.  Repayment is dependent upon the successful operation of the business, which is greatly dependent on many things outside the control of either us or the borrowers.  These factors include adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crops or limit crop yields (such as hail, drought and floods), loss of livestock due to disease or other factors, declines in market prices for agricultural products (both domestically and internationally) and the impact of government regulations (including changes in price supports, subsidies and environmental regulations).  In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm.  If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may impaired.  Consequently, agricultural loans may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets such as farm equipment (some of which is highly specialized with a limited or no market for resale), or assets such as livestock or crops.  In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted agricultural operating loan my not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance as a result of the greater likelihood of damage, loss or depreciation or because the assessed value of the collateral exceeds the eventual realization value.  At December 31, 2017, there were $6.1 million of agricultural loans that were non-performing or 23% of total non-performing loans.. • Consumer Loans.  At December 31, 2017, consumer loans were $688.8 million, or 9% of our total loan portfolio.  Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss.  In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy.  Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans.  At December 31, 2017, consumer loans that were non-performing were $1.4 million, or 5% of our total non-performing loans.. 24. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio, which would cause our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition to be adversely affected.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment.  This risk is affected by, among other things:. • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral;. • the duration of the loan;. • the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and. • changes in economic and industry conditions.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio.  The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management's  expectations of future events;. • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral; and. • an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as an allowance for credit losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses only when they have been incurred and are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management.  If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses.  Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, most likely, capital, and may have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We pursue a strategy of supplementing internal growth by acquiring other financial companies or their assets and liabilities that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings.  We may be adversely affected by risks associated with potential acquisitions.. As part of our general growth strategy, we have recently expanded our business through acquisitions.  During 2015, we completed the acquisitions of AmericanWest and Siuslaw.  Although our business strategy emphasizes organic expansion, we continue, from time to time in the ordinary course of business, to engage in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets.  There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets.  The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute shareholder value or may have an adverse effect upon our operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into our operations.  In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by Banner's existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.  Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect our earnings.  These adverse effects on our earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of Banner's stock.  Acquiring banks, bank branches or businesses involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including:. • We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets, and liabilities we acquire.  If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;. • Higher than expected deposit attrition;. • Potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. • Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions.  We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future;. • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful.  This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business.  If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal. 25. adverse effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business.  We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful;. • To the extent our costs of an acquisition exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired, the acquisition will generate goodwill.  As discussed below, we are required to assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually, and any goodwill impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition;. • To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders; and. • We have completed various acquisitions in the past few years that enhanced our rate of growth.  We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future.. The required accounting treatment of loans we acquire through acquisitions including purchase credit impaired loans could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods.. Under GAAP, we are required to record loans acquired through acquisitions, including purchase credit impaired loans, at fair value.  Estimating the fair value of such loans requires management to make estimates based on available information and facts and circumstances on the acquisition date.  Actual performance could differ from management's initial estimates.  If these loans outperform our original fair value estimates, the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the \"discount\") is accreted into net interest income.  Thus, our net interest margins may initially increase due to the discount accretion.  We expect the yields on our loans to decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures and the discount decreases, and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans.  This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margins and lower interest income in future periods.. Severe weather, natural disasters, or other catastrophes could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, widespread disease or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business.  In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and leases, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any of these events in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or be required by our regulators to increase our capital resources.  Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance.  Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as REO and at certain other times during the assets holding period.  Our net book value (NBV) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value).  A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value.  If our valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional write-downs.  Significant write-downs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further write-downs.  Any increase in our write-downs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings.  Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand.  Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment.  If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur.  Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest. 26. rates.  We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes.  There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by secondary market purchasers or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage banking revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income.  We generate mortgage banking revenues primarily from gains on the sale of one- to four-family and multifamily mortgage loans.  The one- to four-family mortgage loans are sold pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and non-Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) investors.  These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential one- to four-family mortgage loans.  Multifamily mortgage loans are sold primarily to non-GSE investors.. Any future changes in the one- to four-family programs, our eligibility to participate in these programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities, or a reduction in the size of the secondary market for multifamily loans could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations.  Mortgage banking is generally considered a volatile source of income because it depends largely on the level of loan volume which, in turn, depends largely on prevailing market interest rates.  In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors.  This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income.  In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs.  During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.  In addition, although we sell loans into the secondary market without recourse, we are required to give customary representations and warranties about the loans to the buyers.  If we breach those representations and warranties, the buyers may require us to repurchase the loans and we may incur a loss on the repurchase.. Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage investment in mortgage servicing rights, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments may be ineffective to offset any adverse changes in the fair value of these assets due to changes in interest rates and market liquidity.. We use derivative instruments to economically hedge mortgage servicing rights, mortgage loans held for sale and interest rate lock commitments to offset changes in fair value resulting from changing interest rate environments. Our hedging strategies are susceptible to prepayment risk, basis risk, market volatility and changes in the shape of the yield curve, among other factors.  In addition, hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections regarding assets and general market factors.  If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedging strategies do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may incur losses that would adversely impact earnings.. Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board.  In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve Board has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate for an extended period of time.  However, more recently the Federal Reserve Board increased the Fed Funds rate by 25 basis points in 2016 and 75 basis points in 2017.  In addition, The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it intends further increases during 2018 subject to economic conditions.  As the Federal Reserve Board increases the Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact both the housing markets by reducing refinancing activity and new home purchases and the U.S. economic recovery.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.. Changes in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations or by reducing our margins and profitability.  Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding.  Changes in interest rates - up or down - could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates.  As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up.  Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve\" - or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates - could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.  Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income.. 27. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  As a result of the exceptionally low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of deposits bearing no or a relatively low rate of interest and having a shorter duration than our assets.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.. In addition, a substantial amount of our loans have adjustable interest rates.  As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment.  Further, a significant portion of our adjustable rate loans have interest rate floors below which the loan's contractual interest rate may not adjust.  Approximately 69% of our loan portfolio was comprised of adjustable or floating-rate loans at December 31, 2017, and approximately $2.5 billion, or 46%, of those loans contained interest rate floors, below which the loans' contractual interest rate may not adjust.  At December 31, 2017, the weighted average floor interest rate of these loans was 4.65%.  At that date, approximately $948.8 million, or 39%, of these loans were at their floor interest rate.  The inability of our loans to adjust downward can contribute to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, although this result is subject to the risks that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods of declining interest rates.  Also, when loans are at their floors, there is a further risk that our interest income may not increase as rapidly as our cost of funds during periods of increasing interest rates which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.  Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results.  For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see \"Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for additional information about our interest rate risk management.. Changes in the method of determining the LIBOR or other reference rates may adversely impact the value of loans receivable and other financial instruments we hold that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates in ways that are difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. In recent years, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR.  Aspects of the method for determining how LIBOR is formulated and its use in the market have changed and may continue to change.  Recent changes to LIBOR administration have included the introduction of statutory regulation of LIBOR by United Kingdom regulatory authorities; reducing the currencies for which LIBOR is calculated to five; reducing the tenors for which LIBOR is calculated to seven; delaying the publication of individual banks' LIBOR submissions for three months from submission; requiring banks to provide LIBOR submissions based on an effective methodology on the basis of relevant criteria and information, including observable market transactions where possible; and during July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, the financial regulatory body in the United Kingdom which oversees the LIBOR benchmark rate, announced that the LIBOR will be replaced at the end of 2021 and that they will work towards developing an alternative benchmark. Each such change and any future changes could impact the availability and volatility of LIBOR.  Similar changes have occurred or may occur with respect to other reference rates.  It is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or that are due to us, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. As state-chartered, federally insured commercial banks, Banner Bank and Islanders Bank (the Banks) are currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the Washington DFI and as a bank holding company Banner is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve.  These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of  implementing rules and regulations and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress.  The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain and may have indeterminable impact on us in future periods.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices.  The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.  Financial institutions with $10 billion or less in assets (who have no affiliates with assets of $10 billion or more) are examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. 28. but are subject to the rules of the CFPB.  See \" We may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny if and when Banner or Banner Bank maintains total assets exceeding $10.0 billion.\". The CFPB has issued a number of final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws.  These final rules generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices.  In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years.  Compliance with these rules has increased our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans.  This includes compliance with The Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, which combines certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing a mortgage loan.  Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities.. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations implementing it will have on community banks.  However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs, which could adversely affect key operating efficiency ratios, and could increase our interest expense.  See \"Business - Regulation\" contained in Part I, Item I of this report.. We may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny if and when Banner or Banner Bank maintains total assets exceeding $10.0 billion.. Banner's total assets were $9.76 billion and Banner Bank's total assets were $9.48 billion at December 31, 2017.  Following the fourth consecutive quarter where the total assets of Banner or Banner Bank exceed $10 billion, Banner or Banner Bank, as applicable, will become subject to a number of additional requirements (such as annual stress testing requirements implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and general oversight by the CFPB) that will impose additional compliance costs on our business.  As a result, there may also be additional higher expectations from regulators.  The CFPB has supervision authority, including examination authority, over institutions of that size and their affiliates to assess compliance with federal consumer financial laws, to obtain information about the institutions' activities and compliance systems and procedures, and to detect and assess risks to consumers and markets.. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum ratio of net worth to insured deposits of the Deposit Insurance Fund was increased from 1.15% to 1.35% and the FDIC is required, in setting deposit insurance assessments, to offset the effect of the increase on institutions with assets of less than $10 billion, which results in institutions with assets greater than $10 billion paying higher assessments.  In addition, if Banner Bank exceeds $10 billion in assets for four consecutive quarters, the method for determining its federal deposit insurance assessments will change from the method for smaller institutions (based on CAMELS ratings and certain financial ratios) to a scorecard method.  The scorecard method uses a performance score and a loss severity score, which are combined and converted into an initial base assessment rate.  The performance score is based on measures of the bank's ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress and weighted CAMELS ratings, which are ratings ascribed under the CAMELS supervisory rating system and assigned based on a supervisory authority's analysis of a bank's financial statements and on-site examinations.  The loss severity score is a measure of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the bank's failure.  Under a formula, the performance score and loss severity score are combined and converted to a total score that determines the bank's initial base assessment rate.  The FDIC has the discretion to alter the total score based on factors not captured by the scorecard.  The resulting initial base assessment rate is also subject to adjustments downward based on long-term unsecured debt issued by the bank, to adjustment upward based on long-term unsecured debt held by the bank that is issued by other FDIC-insured institutions, and to further adjustment upward if the bank's brokered deposits exceed 10% of its domestic deposits.. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires publicly-traded bank holding companies with average assets of $10 billion or more for four consecutive quarters to perform capital stress testing and establish a risk committee responsible for enterprise-wide risk management practices, comprised of independent directors, including one risk management expert.. As a result of the above, if and when Banner's or Banner Bank's total assets exceed $10 billion or more for four consecutive quarters deposit insurance assessments, expenses related to regulatory compliance are likely to increase, and interchange fee income will decrease, the cumulative effect of which may be significant.. Reductions in interchange income could negatively impact our earnings.. Further, Banner Bank and Islanders Bank may be affected by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act regarding limits on debit card interchange fees.  The Durbin Amendment gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more at year end and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer.  The Federal Reserve Board has adopted rules under this provision that limit the swipe fees that a debit card issuer can charge a merchant for a transaction to the sum of 21 cents and five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs.  Based on expected debit card volume, we believe we could experience a reduction of approximately $12 million a year in debit card related fee income and pre-tax earnings following the implementation of the Durbin Amendment.. Interchange income is derived from fees paid by merchants to the interchange network in exchange for the use of the network's infrastructure and payment facilitation.  These fees are paid to card issuers to compensate them for the costs associated with issuance and operation.  We earn interchange fees on card transactions from our debit cards, including $21.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Merchants have attempted to negotiate lower interchange rates, and the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which we would become subject to once our. 29. total assets exceed $10.0 billion, limits the amount of interchange fees that may be charged for certain debit card transactions.  See \"We may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny if and when Banner or Banner Bank maintains total assets exceeding $10.0 billion.\"  As the financial services industry evolves, consumers may find debit financial services to be less attractive than traditional or other financial services.  Consumers might not use debit card financial services for any number of reasons, including the general perception of our industry.  If consumers do not continue or increase their usage of debit cards, including making changes in the way debit cards are loaded, our operating revenues and debit card deposits may remain at current levels or decline. Any projected growth for the industry may not occur or may occur more slowly than estimated.  If consumer acceptance of debit financial services does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than expected or if there is a shift in the mix of payment forms, such as cash, credit cards, traditional debit cards and debit cards, away from our products and services, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.  Merchants may also continue to pursue alternative payment platforms, such as Apple Pay, to lower their processing costs.  Any such new payment system may reduce our interchange income.  Our failure to comply with the operating regulations set forth by payment card networks, which may change, could subject us to penalties, fees or the termination of our license to use the networks.  Any of these scenarios could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. The banking industry is extensively regulated.  Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's shareholders.  These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations.  The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading \"Item 1. Business-Regulation.\"  These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures.  These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.  The current presidential administration has indicated that it would like to see changes made to certain financial reform regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has resulted in increased regulatory uncertainty, and we are assessing the potential impact on financial and economic markets and on our business.  Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies are expected to occur over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry. The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain.  Any new regulations or legislation, change in existing regulations or oversight, whether a change in regulatory policy or a change in a regulator's interpretation of a law or regulation, could have a material impact on our operations, increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and or otherwise adversely affect us and our profitability.  Further, changes in accounting standards can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us and our independent registered public accounting firm.  These changes could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.  Recently several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.  While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those. changes, we will not be able to effectively compete.. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with the technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes.  Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may experience future goodwill impairment.. In accordance with GAAP, we record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value with the excess of the purchase consideration over the net assets acquired resulting in the recognition of goodwill.  As a result, acquisitions typically result in recording goodwill.  We perform. 30. a goodwill evaluation at least annually to test for goodwill impairment.  As part of our testing, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  If we determine the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount using these qualitative factors, we then compare the fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount, and then measures impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance may significantly affect the fair value of our goodwill and may trigger additional impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position.. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future.  Any impairment charge has an adverse effect on our results of shareholders' equity and financial results and could cause a decline in our stock price.  The acquisitions of Starbuck, Siuslaw Financial Group (Siuslaw) and their subsidiaries, AmericanWest and Siuslaw Bank, respectively, have substantially increased our goodwill.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands.  We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances, including events causing industry or general financial market stress.  Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio.  Borrowings also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or investment securities and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general.  Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, negative operating results, or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry or deterioration in credit markets.  Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities.  These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment, which on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral.   Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs.. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Banks conduct their business.  The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy.   Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel.  In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees.  We could undergo a difficult transition period if we were to lose the services of any of these individuals. Our success also depends on the experience of our banking facilities' managers and bankers and on their relationships with the customers and communities they serve.  In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, many of whom are at or nearing retirement age, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors.  The loss of these key persons could negatively impact the affected banking operations.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations.  Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. Any inaccurate assumptions in our analytical and forecasting models could cause us to miscalculate our projected revenue or losses, which could adversely affect us.. We use analytical and forecasting models to estimate the effects of economic conditions on our financial assets and liabilities as well as our mortgage servicing rights. Those models include assumptions about interest rates and consumer behavior that may be incorrect.  If our model. 31. assumptions are incorrect, improperly applied or inadequate, we may record higher than expected losses or lower than expected revenues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality or operational failures due to integration or conversion challenges as a result of acquisitions we undertake, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers.  We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing stockholder value.  We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze and control the types of risk to which we are subject.  These risks include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others.  We also maintain a compliance program to identify, measure, assess, and report on our adherence to applicable laws, policies and procedures.  While we assess and improve these programs on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that our risk management or compliance programs, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business.  However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified.  If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack.  Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business.  Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact.  If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties.  We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. Security breaches in our Internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation.  Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our Internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information.  We rely on standard Internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data.  These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, which could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.. Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions.  While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers.  If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted.  Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all.  Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability.  Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 32. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our data management or aggregation.. We are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management. Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risks, as well as to manage changing business needs.. We rely on dividends from Banner Bank for substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level.. We are an entity separate and distinct from our principal subsidiary, Banner Bank, and derive substantially all of our revenue at the holding company level in the form of dividends from that subsidiary.  Accordingly, we are, and will be, dependent upon dividends from Banner Bank to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on our common stock.  Banner Bank's ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements.  In the event Banner Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock.  Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors.. Our articles of incorporation contains a provision which could limit the voting rights of a holder of our common stock.. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10.0% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares.  Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to our common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively affect our shareholders.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the corporate laws of the state of Washington and federal laws and regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise negatively affect the market value of our stock.  These provisions, among others, include: a prohibition on voting shares of our common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10.0% of total shares outstanding; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at shareholder meetings; and staggered three-year terms for directors.  Our articles of incorporation also authorize our board of directors to issue preferred or other stock, and preferred or other stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal.  In addition, because we are a bank holding company, the ability of a third party to acquire us is limited by applicable banking laws and regulations.  The Bank Holding Company Act requires any bank holding company to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring 5% or more of any class of our voting securities.  Any entity that is a holder of 25% or more of any class of our voting securities, or in some circumstances a holder of a lesser percentage, is subject to regulation as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act.  Under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, any person (or persons acting in concert), other than a bank holding company, is required to notify the Federal Reserve before acquiring 10% or more of any class of our voting securities."
