[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Company involves risk, some of which, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, compliance, reputational and strategic risks, could be substantial and is inherent in our business. This risk also includes the possibility that the value of the investment could decrease considerably, and dividends or other distributions concerning the investment could be reduced or eliminated. Discussed below are risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and condition, as well as the value of, and return on investment in the Company.. Deterioration in local economies or real estate market may adversely affect our financial performance.. We serve individuals and businesses located in the downeast, midcoast and central regions of Maine, the Cheshire, Grafton, Hillsborough, Merrimack and Sullivan counties in central and western New Hampshire, and the Rutland, Windsor and Orange counties in central Vermont.  A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate in these areas and the value of the associated collateral is subject to local real estate market conditions.  Furthermore, many of our customers in the hospitality industry rely upon a high number of tourists to vacation destinations and attraction within our markets.  Our success is largely dependent on the economic conditions, including employment levels, population growth, income levels, savings trends and government policies in those market areas.  A downturn in the local economies may adversely affect collateral values, sources of funds, and demand for our products, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business expansion.. Changes in the general economy or the financial markets could adversely affect our financial performance.. The outlook for the U.S. economy remains uncertain amid concerns about short- and long-term interest rates, debt and equity capital markets and general financial market conditions. A deterioration of general economic conditions could adversely affect the markets of our local economies and have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Deterioration or defaults made by issuers of the underlying collateral of our investment securities may cause additional credit-related other-than-temporary impairment charges to our income statement. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies or deteriorating investor expectations.. Interest rate volatility could significantly reduce the Company's profitability.. The Bank's earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-bearing assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, or the slope of the yield curve could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline, the Bank's higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact its net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, the Bank's loans and investment securities may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact its net interest margin as well.. Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase our cost of funding.. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. We compete with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase if we lose deposits and are forced to replace them with more expensive sources of funding, if customers shift their deposits into higher cost products or if we need to raise interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and net income.. 23. Table of Contents. Wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our operations and future growth.. The Company and banking subsidiaries must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. To manage liquidity, the Company draws upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our ability to manage liquidity will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. In addition, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.. High concentrations of commercial loans may increase exposure to credit loss upon borrower default.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 49% of the Banks's loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial, construction and agricultural loans. Commercial loan portfolio concentration generally exposes lenders to greater risk of delinquency and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation and income streams from the property.  Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Because the Bank's loan portfolio contains a significant number of large commercial loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, provision for loan losses,  and/or an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.. Greater than anticipated credit losses in the loan portfolios may adversely affect earnings.. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. We evaluate the allowance for loan losses on a periodic basis using current information, including the quality of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accrual loans.  Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is appropriate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. Increases in the allowance will result in an expense for the period, thereby reducing our reported net income.. Strong competition within our markets may significantly impact the Company's profitability.. The Company competes with an ever-increasing array of financial service providers. See the section entitled \"Competition\" of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about our competitors. Competition from nationwide banks, as well as local institutions, continues to mount in our markets.  To compete, the Company focuses on quality customer service, making decisions at the local level, maintaining long-term customer relationships, building customer loyalty, and providing products and services designed to address the specific needs of customers. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability.. Expansion, growth, and acquisitions could negatively impact earnings if not successful.. The Company may grow organically both by geographic expansion and through business line expansion, as well as through acquisitions. Success of these activities depends on the Company's ability to continue to maintain and develop an infrastructure appropriate to support and integrate such growth. Also, success depends on the acceptance by customers in these new markets and, in the case of expansion through acquisitions, success depends on many factors, including the long-term recruitment and retention of key personnel and acquired customer relationships. Profitability depends on whether the income generated in the new markets will offset the increased expenses of operating a larger entity, with more staff, more locations, and more product offerings.  Failure to achieve any of these success factors may have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and may negatively impact our financial results.. The Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or limit the pricing the Company may charge on certain banking services, among other things. Compliance personnel and resources may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings.. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. The Company may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed.. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In addition, the Company may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or the Company may otherwise elect to raise additional capital.. The Company's ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company's control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our Company's ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us.  If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on reasonable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. The Company's necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and its large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (i.e., computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disaster, disease pandemics, or other damage to property or physical assets), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business (i.e., by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention.. 25. Table of Contents. Disruptions to the Company's information systems and security breaches could adversely affect its business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies on electronic communications and information systems to conduct its businesses and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding its customers. The integrity of information systems are under significant threat from cyber-attacks by third parties, including through coordinated attacks sponsored by foreign nations and criminal organizations to disrupt business operations and other compromises to data and systems for political or criminal purposes. The Company employs an in-depth, layered, defense approach that leverages people, processes and technology to manage and maintain cyber security controls. Notwithstanding the strength of our defensive measures, the threat from cyberattacks is severe, attacks are sophisticated and attackers respond rapidly to changes in defensive measures. Cyber security risks may also occur with the Company's third-party service providers, and may interfere with their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, with additional potential for financial loss or liability that could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company offers its customers the ability to bank remotely and provide other technology-based products and services, which services include the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels. To the extent that the Company's customers' systems are not secure or are otherwise compromised, its network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, malicious software, phishing schemes and other security breaches. To the extent that the Company' activities or the activities of its clients or third-party service providers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and malicious software could expose the Company to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities.. While to date the Company has not experienced a significant compromise, significant data loss or material financial losses related to cyber security attacks, the Company's systems and those of its clients and third-party service providers are under constant threat and we may experience a significant event in the future. The Company may suffer material financial losses related to these risks in the future or it may be subject to liability for compromises to its client or third-party service provider systems. Any such losses or liabilities could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations, and could expose us to reputation risk, the loss of client business, increased operational costs, as well as additional regulatory scrutiny, possible litigation, and related financial liability. These risks also include possible business interruption, including the inability to access critical information and systems.. The Company continually encounters technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers.. The Company is subject to possible claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibilities.. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company's performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of our Company and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. Federal, state, and local tax authorities may change tax laws and regulations, which could result in a decrease or increase to our net deferred tax assets. In December 2017, we recognized a write-down of $4.0 million in net deferred tax assets in connection with the adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\"). Federal, state, and local tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the. 26. Table of Contents. timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. Goodwill from acquisitions could become impaired.. Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the acquired company's net assets, the excess is carried on the balance sheet as goodwill, by the acquirer. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a continuing period of market disruption, market capitalization to book value deterioration, or slower growth rates may require us to record charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. If the Company concludes that a future write-down is necessary, the impact could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company's controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. The Company regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.. The Company's access to funds from subsidiaries may be restricted.. Bar Harbor Bankshares is a separate and distinct legal entity from our Bank and nonbanking subsidiaries. Bar Harbor Bankshares depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on its common stock and to fund all payments on its other obligations. The Company's subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Bar Harbor Bankshares, which could impede access to funds it needs to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments.. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and the Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. In addition, the Bank's rural geographic marketplace, combined with relatively expensive real estate purchase prices within the area of the Bank's principal office location in Bar Harbor, Maine, create additional risks for the Company and the Bank's ability to attract and retain key personnel. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, which will be effective for the Company for the first quarter of the year ending December 31, 2020.  This standard, often referred to as \"CECL\" requires companies to recognize an allowance for credit losses using a new current expected credit loss model. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard on our consolidated financial statements.  Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title.. In the course of our business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The cost associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.. 27. Table of Contents. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact the Company's business and the business of its customers.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our Company's ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. In particular, such events may have a particularly negative impact upon the business of our customers who are engaged in the hospitality and natural resource dependent industries in our market area, which could have a direct negative impact on our Company's business and results of operations."
