[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Investing in our securities involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not presently deemed material by us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value, the trading price of our common stock and the value of our other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage and deploy capital effectively.. Our ability to continue to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to effectively manage and deploy our capital, which will depend, in turn, on our management team's ability to continue to identify, evaluate, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve our investment objectives.. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our management team's handling of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to investments offering acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment.. Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations in a manner commensurate with the increased capital available to us as a result of recent offerings of our securities, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, readily accessible short and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described in this Annual Report, it could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and cause you to lose part or all of your investment.. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. During such periods of market disruption and instability, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have limited access, if available, to alternative markets for debt and equity capital. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions which will apply to us as a BDC, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future.. Market conditions may in the future make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness, including the final maturity of our third amended and restated senior secured credit facility, as amended on May 1, 2017 (the \"Credit Facility\"), in April 2022, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to raise or refinance debt, then our equity investors may not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or to fund existing commitments to our portfolio companies. In addition, the illiquidity of. 29. our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments.. Given the extreme volatility and dislocation that the capital markets have historically experienced, many BDCs have faced, and may in the future face, a challenging environment in which to raise capital. We may in the future have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital, and a severe disruption in the global financial markets or deterioration in credit and financing conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We monitor developments and seek to manage our investments in a manner consistent with achieving our investment objective, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so, and we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments, including regulatory developments in the current or future market environment.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of the portfolio companies in which we make investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay the loans we made to them during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record our investments at their current fair value. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our and our portfolio companies' funding costs, limit our and our portfolio companies' access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us or our portfolio companies. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold. We may incur additional expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we will actually provide significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. Uncertainty about the financial stability of the United States could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Due to federal budget deficit concerns, S&P downgraded the federal government's credit rating from AAA to AA+ for the first time in history in August 2011. Further, Moody's and Fitch had warned that they may downgrade the federal government's credit rating. Further downgrades or warnings by S&P or other rating agencies, and the United States government's credit and deficit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact both the perception of credit risk associated with our debt portfolio and our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, a decreased U.S. government credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our financial performance and the value of our common stock.. The Federal Reserve has raised the federal funds rate multiple times in recent quarters and has announced its intention to continue to raise the federal funds rate over time. These developments, along with domestic credit and deficit concerns and any global debt and/or economic crises, could cause interest rates to be volatile, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. 30. Our investment portfolio is and will continue to be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Typically there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we have invested and will generally continue to invest. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based on input from management, a nationally recognized independent advisor (on a rotational basis) and our audit committee. See \"Item 1. Business - Valuation Process and Determination of Net Asset Value\" for a detailed description of our valuation process.. The determination of fair value and consequently, the amount of unrealized appreciation and depreciation in our portfolio, is to a certain degree subjective and dependent on the judgment of our Board of Directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company's earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flows and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale or disposition of one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our securities based on an overstated net asset value would pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling shares during a period in which the net asset value understates the value of our investments will receive a lower price for their shares than the value of our investments might warrant.. Volatility or a prolonged disruption in the credit markets could materially damage our business.. We are required to record our assets at fair value, as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors in accordance with our valuation policy. As a result, volatility in the capital markets may adversely affect our valuations and our net asset value, even if we intend to hold investments to maturity. Volatility or dislocation in the capital markets may depress our stock price below our net asset value per share and create a challenging environment in which to raise debt and equity capital. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. Additionally, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage under the 1940 Act must equal at least 200% of total indebtedness immediately after each time we incur indebtedness exclusive of the SBA-guaranteed debentures pursuant to our SEC exemptive relief. Shrinking portfolio values negatively impact our ability to borrow additional funds or issue additional debt securities because our net asset value is reduced for purposes of the 200% asset leverage test. If the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratio stipulated by the 1940 Act, which could, in turn, cause us to lose our status as a BDC and materially impair our business operations. A protracted disruption in the credit markets could also materially decrease demand for our investments.. The significant disruption in the capital markets experienced in the past had and may in the future have a negative effect on the valuations of our investments, and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, is likely to have a higher cost and less favorable terms and conditions. If our financing costs increase and we have no increase in interest income, then our net investment income will decrease. A prolonged inability to raise capital will require us to reduce the volume of loans we originate and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. This may also increase the probability that other structural risks negatively impact us. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a protracted disruption in the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a sharp economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business.. 31. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in target companies. We compete for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial and investment banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, also invest in lower middle market companies. As a result, competition for investment opportunities in lower middle market companies is intense. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in lower middle market companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financing sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC.. We are dependent upon our executives for our future success.. We depend on the members of our senior management team, particularly executive officers E. Ashton Poole, Steven C. Lilly, Jeffrey A. Dombcik, Cary B. Nordan and Douglas A. Vaughn, for the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These executive officers have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. If we lose the services of these individuals, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer.. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment.. We experience competition in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly investment professionals, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our business if we cannot attract and retain such personnel. Our ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have.. The competitive environment for qualified personnel may require us to take certain measures to ensure that we are able to attract and retain experienced personnel. Such measures may include increasing the attractiveness of our overall compensation packages, altering the structure of our compensation packages through the use of additional forms of compensation, utilization of employment contracts for our executive officers or other steps. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships, and our inability to maintain or develop these relationships, as well as the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business.. We expect that members of our management and investment teams will maintain their relationships with financial institutions, private equity and other non-bank investors, investment bankers, commercial bankers, attorneys, accountants and consultants, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If our management and investment teams fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom members of our management and. 32. investment teams have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us.. Our long-term ability to fund new investments and make distributions to our stockholders could be limited if we are unable to renew, extend, replace or expand our credit facility, or if financing becomes more expensive or less available.. On May 1, 2017, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Facility, which (i) increased current commitments under the Credit Facility from $300.0 million to $435.0 million, (ii) provides for an accordion feature that allows for an increase in commitments to up to $550.0 million from new and existing lenders on the same terms and conditions as the existing commitments, and (iii) extends the maturity of the Credit Facility by two years. In July 2017, we increased our commitments under the Credit Facility by $30.0 million to $465.0 million and in September 2017, we again increased our commitments under the Credit Facility from $465.0 million to $480.0 million. If we are unable to meet the terms of the accordion feature, we will be unable to further expand the facility. The revolving period of the Credit Facility ends April 30, 2021, followed by a one-year amortization period with a final maturity date of April 30, 2022. If the facility is not renewed or extended, all principal and interest will be due and payable.. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility when principal payments are due and payable on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to expand the Credit Facility, and to obtain replacement financing when principal payments are due and payable, will be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to expand the Credit Facility, or to renew, extend or replace the Credit Facility when principal payments are due and payable, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC under the Code.. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital.. Our business will require capital to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources:. Senior Securities.    Currently we, through our SBIC subsidiaries, have issued debt securities guaranteed by the SBA. We have also issued three classes of notes in registered public offerings, two of which are still outstanding. In the future, we may issue additional debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions (including borrowings under our Credit Facility), which we refer to collectively as senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to additional risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. Further we may not be permitted to declare a dividend or make any distribution to stockholders or repurchase shares until such time as we satisfy this test.. • Any amounts that we use to service our debt or make payments on preferred stock will not be available for distributions to our common stockholders.. • It is likely that any securities or other indebtedness we issue will be, and our Credit Facility and our existing notes are, governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, some of these securities or other indebtedness may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities and other indebtedness, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that further restrict operating and financial flexibility.. 33. • We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities and other indebtedness.. • Preferred stock or any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, including separate voting rights and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock.. Additional Common Stock.    Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. At our Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 3, 2017, our stockholders voted to allow us to sell or otherwise issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 3, 2018 or the date of our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. The proposal did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to sell or otherwise issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders' best interests to do so. In any such case, however, the price at which shares of our common stock are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future on favorable terms, or at all.. In addition to regulatory limitations on our ability to raise capital, our Credit Facility contains various covenants, which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the Credit Facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions.. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our investments. We are party to the Credit Facility, which provides us with a revolving credit line of up to $550.0 million, of which $480.0 million is currently committed for funding. The Credit Facility contains customary terms and conditions, including, without limitation, affirmative and negative covenants such as information reporting requirements, minimum consolidated tangible net worth, minimum interest coverage, minimum asset coverage, maintenance of RIC and BDC status and minimum liquidity. The Credit Facility also contains customary events of default with customary cure and notice, including, without limitation, nonpayment, misrepresentation of representations and warranties in a material respect, breach of covenant, cross-default to other indebtedness, bankruptcy, change of control and material adverse effect. The Credit Facility permits us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions set out in the credit agreement. Our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with these covenants. Our failure to satisfy these covenants could result in foreclosure by our lenders, which would accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed by the SBA, and therefore subject to SBA regulations.. Our SBIC subsidiaries are licensed to act as SBICs and are regulated by the SBA. Pursuant to SBA regulations, an SBIC can provide financing in the form of debt, debt with equity features and/or equity to \"eligible\" small businesses. The SBA also places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits SBICs from providing funds for certain purposes or to businesses in a few prohibited industries. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Small Business Administration Regulations\" for more discussion on these limitations. Compliance with SBA requirements may cause our SBIC subsidiaries, and us, as their parent, to forgo attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations.. 34. Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a \"change of control\" of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10.0% or more of a class of capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If our SBIC subsidiaries fail to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit our SBIC subsidiaries' use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit our SBIC subsidiaries from making new investments. In addition, the SBA can remove the general partners of our SBIC subsidiaries and have a receiver appointed, or revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. Such actions by the SBA would, in turn, negatively affect us because our SBIC subsidiaries are wholly-owned.. SBA regulations limit the outstanding dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that may be issued by an SBIC or group of SBICs under common control.. The SBA regulations currently limit the dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that can be issued by any one SBIC to $150.0 million or to a group of SBICs under common control to $350.0 million, subject to SBA approval. Moreover, an SBIC may not borrow an amount in excess of two times (and in certain cases, with SBA approval, up to three times) its regulatory capital, as such term is defined in the SBA regulations. As of December 31, 2017, Triangle SBIC had issued the statutory maximum of $150.0 million of SBA-guaranteed debentures and Triangle SBIC II had issued $100.0 million of SBA-guaranteed debentures, leaving borrowing capacity of a maximum of $100.0 million of SBA-guaranteed debentures for Triangle SBIC III. If we require additional capital, our cost of capital is likely to increase, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. Moreover, the current status of our SBIC subsidiaries as SBICs does not automatically ensure that our SBIC subsidiaries will continue to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding. Receipt of SBA leverage funding is dependent upon our SBIC subsidiaries continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies and available SBA funding. The amount of SBA leverage funding available to SBICs is dependent upon annual Congressional authorizations and in the future may be subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient debenture funding available at the times desired by our SBIC subsidiaries.. The debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of ten years and require semi-annual payments of interest. Our SBIC subsidiaries will need to generate sufficient cash flow to make required interest payments on the debentures. If our SBIC subsidiaries are unable to meet their financial obligations under the debentures, the SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to our SBIC subsidiaries' assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate our SBIC subsidiaries or the SBA exercises its remedies under such debentures as the result of a default by us.. Because we borrow money and may in the future issue additional senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us.. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. As we use leverage to partially finance our investments, our stockholders experience increased risks associated with investing in our securities. We currently have the ability to borrow under our Credit Facility and have issued debt securities, and in the future may borrow from, or issue additional debt securities to, banks, insurance companies, funds, institutional investors and other lenders and investors. Our SBIC subsidiaries have issued debt securities guaranteed by the SBA and sold in the capital markets. As a result of its guarantee of the debt securities, the SBA has fixed dollar claims on the assets of our SBIC subsidiaries that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. In addition, our Credit Facility contains financial and operating covenants that could restrict our business activities, including our ability to declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. Breach of any of those covenants could cause a default under those instruments. Such a default, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. The lenders party to the Credit Facility are secured primarily by our assets, excluding the assets of our SBIC subsidiaries, and have claims that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. We may also borrow from banks and other lenders or issue additional securities including preferred stock and debt. 35. securities in the future. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net investment income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause our net investment income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $166.8 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding of our unsecured notes, $250.0 million in outstanding SBA-guaranteed debentures payable and $156.1 million outstanding under our Credit Facility. In order for us to cover our annual interest payments on this indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our December 31, 2017 total assets of at least 2.2%.. Illustration.     The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below.. Assumed Return on our Portfolio (Net of Expenses)   (10.0 )% (5.0 )% 0.0  % 5.0 % 10.0 % Corresponding net return to stockholder(1) (23.9 )% (14.3 )% (4.8 )% 4.8 % 14.3 %. (1) Assumes $1.2 billion in total assets, $572.8 million in principal amount of debt outstanding, $641.3 million in net assets and an average cost of funds of 5.35%, which was the weighted average borrowing cost of our borrowings at December 31, 2017.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective may depend in part on our ability to achieve additional leverage on favorable terms by issuing additional securities or debentures guaranteed by the SBA, by borrowing from banks or insurance companies or by expanding our line of credit, and there can be no assurance that such additional leverage can in fact be achieved.. There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors' review of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or, if a transaction is consummated, that we will be able to achieve some or all of the benefits anticipated from such transaction.. As initially announced in November 2017, our Board of Directors has elected to explore and evaluate a broad range of strategic alternatives to enhance long-term stockholder value and has engaged an investment banking firm as its financial advisor in connection therewith. There can be no assurance that this strategic alternatives review process will result in a transaction, or if a transaction is undertaken, as to its terms or timing. Our ability to successfully complete any strategic transaction is subject to significant risks, including, among others, the risk that any required regulatory or governmental approvals may not be obtained and the risk that, for this or other reasons, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we anticipated from such transaction.. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments with preferred stock, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowings.. Preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference.. 36. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results.. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. Our ability to enter into and exit investment transactions with our affiliates is restricted.. Except in those instances where we have received prior exemptive relief from the SEC, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, prior approval of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5.0% or more of our outstanding voting securities is deemed our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits \"joint\" transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25.0% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. These restrictions could limit or prohibit us from making certain attractive investments that we might otherwise make absent such restrictions.. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, we will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds from any future offering and may use the net proceeds from such offerings in ways with which investors may not agree or for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of the offering.. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to maintain our tax treatment as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have elected to be treated as a RIC under the Code, which generally will allow us to avoid being subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. To obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements:. • The Annual Distribution Requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90.0% of our net ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, or \"investment company taxable income\" or ICTI.\" if any. We will be subject to a 4.0% nondeductible U.S. federal excise tax, however, to the extent that we do not satisfy certain additional minimum distribution requirements on a calendar year basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and are currently, and may in the future become, subject to certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax.. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90.0% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources.. 37. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50.0% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25.0% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain \"qualified publicly traded partnerships.\" Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC tax treatment. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses.. If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We may also be subject to certain U.S. federal excise taxes, as well as state, local and foreign taxes.. We may not be able to pay distributions to our stockholders, our distributions may not grow over time, a portion of distributions paid to our stockholders may be a return of capital and investors in our debt securities may not receive all of the interest income to which they are entitled.. We intend to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be harmed by, among other things, the risk factors described in this Annual Report. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC could, in the future, limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC tax treatment, compliance with applicable BDC regulations, our SBIC subsidiaries' compliance with applicable SBIC regulations, compliance with the covenants of our debt securities and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, our line of credit may restrict the amount of distributions we are permitted to make. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future.. The above-referenced restrictions on distributions may also inhibit our ability to make required interest payments to holders of our debt securities, which may cause a default under the terms of our debt agreements. Such a default could materially increase our cost of raising capital, as well as cause us to incur penalties under the terms of our debt agreements.. When we make quarterly distributions, we will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings and profits, recognized capital gain or capital. To the extent there is a return of capital, investors will be required to reduce their basis in our stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may result in a higher tax liability when the shares are sold, even if they have not increased in value or have lost value.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with contractual PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. Investments structured with these features may represent a higher level of credit risk compared to investments generating income which must be paid in cash on a current basis. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash. 38. compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our ICTI for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, see \"Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations  -  Taxation as a RIC\" included in Item 1 of Part 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. You may have a current tax liability on distributions reinvested in our common stock pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan but would not receive cash from such distributions to pay such tax liability.. If you participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, unless you are a tax-exempt entity, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your tax liability on the value of our common stock received from the distribution.. Our SBIC subsidiaries, as SBICs, may be unable to make distributions to us that may harm our ability to meet regulated investment company requirements, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax.. In order for us to continue to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC, we will be required to distribute on an annual basis substantially all of our taxable income, including income from our subsidiaries, including our SBIC subsidiaries. As a significant amount of our investments are generally held by our SBIC subsidiaries, we will be substantially dependent on our SBIC subsidiaries for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. Our SBIC subsidiaries may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act, and SBA regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC. In this regard, SBA regulations prohibit Triangle SBIC, Triangle SBIC II, and Triangle SBIC III from making distributions to us when they have negative \"retained earnings available for distribution,\" which is calculated as \"net retained earnings minus unrealized depreciation.\" We may have to request a waiver of the SBA's restrictions for our SBIC subsidiaries to make certain distributions to maintain our tax treatment as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such waiver and if our SBIC subsidiaries are unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC tax treatment and a consequent imposition of corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on us.. Pursuant to SBA regulations, an SBIC with outstanding debenture leverage may only distribute cumulative realized profits (less unrealized losses on investments). It may not return more than 2% of its outstanding capital in any fiscal year without prior SBA approval. Historically, the SBA has permitted payment in excess of 2% only pursuant to an approved wind-up plan filed by the SBIC pursuant to which the SBA determines that repayment of outstanding debentures is adequately assured.. Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders to maintain our tax treatment as a regulated investment company, we will continue to need additional capital to finance our growth, and regulations governing our operation as a business development company will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital and make distributions.. In order to satisfy the requirements applicable to a RIC, and to avoid payment of U.S. federal excise tax, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our net ordinary income and net capital gain income except for certain net long-term capital gains recognized after we became a RIC, some or all of which we may. 39. retain, pay applicable U.S. federal income taxes with respect thereto and elect to treat as deemed distributions to our stockholders. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings (other than SBA leverage) and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200.0%. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow and may prohibit us from making distributions. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments or sell additional securities and, depending on the nature of our leverage, to repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. In addition, issuance of additional securities could dilute the percentage ownership of our current stockholders in us.. While we expect to be able to borrow and to issue additional debt and equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities, and our net asset value could decline. In addition, as a BDC, we generally are not permitted to issue equity securities priced below our then-current net asset value per share without stockholder approval. At our Annual Stockholders Meeting on May 3, 2017, our stockholders voted to allow us to issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 3, 2018 or the date of our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. The proposal did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders' best interests to do so.. We cannot predict how tax reform legislation will affect us, our investments, or our stockholders, and any such legislation could adversely affect our business.. Legislative or other actions relating to taxes could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. The U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate recently passed tax reform legislation, which the President recently signed into law. Such legislation will make many changes to the Internal Revenue Code, including significant changes to the taxation of business entities, the deductibility of interest expense, and the tax treatment of capital investment. We cannot predict with certainty how any changes in the tax laws might affect us, our stockholders, or our portfolio investments. New legislation and any U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting such legislation could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our stockholders of such qualification, or could have other adverse consequences. Stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor regarding tax legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our securities.. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy.. We are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. In addition, any change to the SBA's current debenture program could have a significant impact on our ability to obtain lower-cost leverage and, therefore, any competitive advantage we may have over other finance companies.. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this Annual Report and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our management team to other types of investments in which our management team may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.. 40. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us.. We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Among other requirements, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, our management is required to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. We are required to review, on an annual basis, our internal controls over financial reporting, and to evaluate and disclose, on a quarterly and annual basis, significant changes in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. In addition, this process results in a diversion of management's time and attention. In the event that we are unable to maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected.. The Credit Facility with potential members of the underwriting syndicate may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with unaffiliated third-parties.. Our credit facility includes lenders that have acted and may in the future act as members of the underwriting syndicate for securities issued pursuant to a previously filed registration statement. Consequently the terms may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with unrelated third parties.. We face cybersecurity risks.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain the availability of our electronic data systems and safeguard the security of our data, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause losses.. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes, and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack or damage. We are subject to cybersecurity risks. Information cybersecurity risks have significantly increased in recent years and, while we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, we could suffer such losses in the future. Our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information, including nonpublic personal information and sensitive business data, processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. This could result in significant losses, reputational damage, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Privacy and information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance with those changes, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. In the future, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully insured.. Third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. We outsource certain functions, and these relationships allow for the storage and processing of our information, as well as customer, counterparty, employee and borrower information. While we engage in actions to reduce our exposure resulting from outsourcing, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss, exposure or destruction of data, or other cybersecurity incidents, with increased costs and other consequences, including those described above.. 41. Our business and operations may be negatively affected by securities litigation or stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of our investment strategy and impact our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. Stockholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in the BDC space recently. For example, we and certain of our current and former executive officers have been named defendants in two separate class-action lawsuits asserting claims under Section 10(b) and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, and, due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may in the future become the target of further securities litigation or stockholder activism. See \"Legal Proceedings\" in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report for more information. Securities litigation and stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, may result in substantial costs and divert management's and our Board of Directors' attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and stockholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to any securities litigation and activist stockholder matters. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and stockholder activism.. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology.. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation.. Risks Relating to Our Investments. Our investments in portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment.. Investing in lower middle market companies involves a number of significant risks. Among other things, these companies:. • may have limited financial resources to meet future capital needs and thus may be unable to grow or meet their obligations under their debt instruments that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees from subsidiaries or affiliates of our portfolio companies that we may have obtained in connection with our investment, as well as a corresponding decrease in the value of the equity components of our investments;. • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market shares and/or more significant customer concentration than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us;. • generally have less predictable operating results, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and. • generally have less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. We rely on the ability of our management team and investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and may lose all or part of our investment.. 42. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, certain of our officers and directors may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. We currently are, and may in the future be, subject to litigation that arises out of our investments in these companies, and our officers and directors may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds (through our indemnification of such officers and directors) and the diversion of management's time and resources.. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business.. We invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses.. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies.. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. We invest in senior and subordinated debt securities generally secured by security interests in portfolio company assets, coupled with equity interests. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other securities that rank equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such holders, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing any junior priority loans we make to our portfolio companies may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that senior obligations are outstanding, we may forfeit certain rights with respect to the collateral to the holders of the senior obligations. These rights may include the right to commence enforcement proceedings against the collateral, the right to control the conduct of such enforcement proceedings, the right to approve amendments to collateral documents, the right to release liens on the collateral and the right to waive past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if as a result our rights as junior lenders are adversely affected.. 43. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances and based upon principles of equitable subordination as defined by existing case law, a bankruptcy court could subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors and transfer any lien securing such subordinated claim to the bankruptcy estate. The principles of equitable subordination defined by case law have generally indicated that a claim may be subordinated only if its holder is guilty of misconduct or where the senior loan is re-characterized as an equity investment and the senior lender has actually provided significant managerial assistance to the bankrupt debtor. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower's business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance or actions to compel and collect payments from the borrower outside the ordinary course of business.. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us.. Certain loans that we make are secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral pledged by a portfolio company to secure senior debt owed by the portfolio company to commercial banks or other traditional lenders. Often the senior lender has procured covenants from the portfolio company prohibiting the incurrence of additional secured debt without the senior lender's consent. Prior to and as a condition of permitting the portfolio company to borrow money from us secured by the same collateral pledged to the senior lender, the senior lender will require assurances that it will control the disposition of any collateral in the event of bankruptcy or other default. In many such cases, the senior lender will require us to enter into an \"intercreditor agreement\" prior to permitting the portfolio company to borrow from us. Typically the intercreditor agreements we are requested to execute expressly subordinate our debt instruments to those held by the senior lender and further provide that the senior lender shall control: (i) the commencement of foreclosure or other proceedings to liquidate and collect on the collateral; (ii) the nature, timing and conduct of foreclosure or other collection proceedings; (iii) the amendment of any collateral document; (iv) the release of the security interests in respect of any collateral; and (v) the waiver of defaults under any security agreement. Because of the control we may cede to senior lenders under intercreditor agreements we may enter, we may be unable to realize the proceeds of any collateral securing some of our loans.. Finally, the value of the collateral securing our debt investment will ultimately depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by our second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the senior lender's first priority liens on the collateral. There is also a risk that such collateral securing our investments may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the portfolio company and market conditions. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by our second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds from the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company's remaining assets, if any.. Our investments in foreign companies may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates potential investments in foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risk not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes (potentially at confiscatory levels), less liquid markets, less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility.. 44. Although most of our investments will be U.S.-dollar denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that such strategies will be effective or without risk to us.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy.. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70.0% of our total assets are qualifying assets. For further detail, see \"Regulation of Business Development Companies\" included in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We believe that substantially all of our investments are qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC. If we fail to maintain our status as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company that is required to register under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to additional regulatory restrictions and significantly decrease our operating flexibility. In addition, any such failure could cause an event of default under our outstanding indebtedness. For these reasons, loss of BDC status likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position).. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer.. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market's assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our RIC asset diversification requirements and certain SBA diversification requirements for our investments held by our three wholly-owned SBIC subsidiaries, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies.. We generally will not control our portfolio companies.. We do not, and do not expect to, control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, during these periods our non-performing assets may increase and the value of these assets may decrease. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by. 45. lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. We experienced to some extent such effects as a result of the economic downturn that occurred from 2008 through 2009 and may experience such effects again in any future downturn or recession.. The recent volatility of oil and natural gas prices could impair certain of our portfolio companies' operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders and investors, including us, which could negatively impact our financial condition.. Some of our portfolio companies' businesses are dependent upon the prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, which have recently declined and such volatility could continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas demand or prices may adversely affect the business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations of these portfolio companies and might impair their ability to meet capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. Financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our portfolio investments defaults on its loans or fails to perform as we expect.. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt and equity investments in privately owned lower middle market businesses. Compared to larger publicly owned companies, these lower middle market companies may be in a weaker financial position and experience wider variations in their operating results, which may make them more vulnerable to economic downturns. Typically, these companies need more capital to compete; however, their access to capital is limited and their cost of capital is often higher than that of their competitors. Our portfolio companies face intense competition from larger companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources and their success typically depends on the management talents and efforts of an individual or a small group of persons. The loss of any of their key employees could affect their ability to compete effectively and harm their financial condition. Further, some of these companies conduct business in regulated industries that are susceptible to regulatory changes. These factors could impair the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in other events, such as bankruptcy. These events could limit a portfolio company's ability to repay their obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Deterioration in a borrower's financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the loan's collateral.. Some of these companies cannot obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional credit sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of companies pose a higher default risk than loans made to companies who have access to traditional credit sources.. Generally, little, if any, public information is available about such companies. Therefore, we must rely on our employees' diligence to obtain the information needed, such as the financial information of these companies, to make well-informed investment decisions. If we do not uncover material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, which could, in turn cause us to lose money on our investments.. Potential writedowns or losses with respect to portfolio investments existing and to be made in the future could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, dividend level, net asset value and stock price.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our non-accrual assets was approximately $15.8 million, which comprised approximately 1.6% of the total fair value of our portfolio. The cost of these non-accrual assets as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $120.1 million, which comprised approximately 10.7% of the total cost of our portfolio.. In addition to our non-accrual assets, as of December 31, 2017, we had, on a fair value basis, approximately $133.2 million of debt investments, or 13.1% of the total fair value of our portfolio, which were current with respect to scheduled interest and principal payments, but which were carried at less than cost due to company-specific fair value adjustments. In light of current economic conditions, certain of our portfolio companies may be unable to service our debt investments on a timely basis. These conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our debt investments, as well as the value of our equity investments. As a result, the number of non-performing assets in our portfolio may increase, and the overall value of our portfolio may decrease, which could. 46. lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our investment income, net investment income, dividends and assets.. Any unrealized losses we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company's inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods.. Defaults by our portfolio companies may harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity.. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our securities.. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital, the value of our investments and results of operations.. A significant portion of our debt investments bear interest at fixed rates and the value of these investments could be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make an investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our distribution rate, a situation which could reduce the value of our common stock. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates may have an adverse impact on our returns by requiring us to seek lower yields on our debt investments and by increasing the risk that our portfolio companies will prepay our debt investments, resulting in the need to redeploy capital at potentially lower rates.. We may not realize gains from our equity investments.. Certain investments that we have made in the past and may make in the future include warrants or other equity securities. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. In addition, we may from time to time make non-control, equity co-investments in companies in conjunction with private equity sponsors. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains. 47. that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We often seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these puts rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress.. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business is dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be:. •sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. •natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. •disease pandemics;. •events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. •cyber attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including business development companies, frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value, and may trade a premiums that may prove to be unsustainable.. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount from net asset value, and may trade at premiums that may prove to be unsustainable. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies and BDCs is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. The risk of purchasing shares of a BDC that might trade at a discount or unsustainable premium is more pronounced for investors who wish to sell their shares in a relatively short period of time because, for those investors, realization of a gain or loss on their investments is likely to be more dependent upon changes in premium or discount levels than upon increases or decreases in net asset value per share. As of December 29, 2017, the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was $9.49 per share, an approximately 29.3% discount to our net asset value per share as of December 31, 2017.. In addition, if our common stock trades below net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional common stock at the market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. On May 3, 2017, our stockholders voted to allow us to sell or otherwise issue common stock at a price below net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 3, 2018 or the date of our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. The proposal did not specify a maximum discount below net asset value at which we are able to sell or otherwise issue our common stock; however, we do not intend to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock below net asset value unless our Board of Directors determines that it would be in our stockholders' best interests to do so.. 48. Investing in our securities may involve an above average degree of risk.. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objective may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and a higher risk of volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative, and therefore, an investment in our shares may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance.. The market price of our securities may be volatile and fluctuate significantly.. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. The market price and liquidity of the market for our securities may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;. • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs, BDCs or SBICs;. • inability to obtain certain exemptive relief from the SEC;. • loss of RIC tax treatment or either of our SBIC subsidiaries' status as an SBIC;. • changes in earnings or variations in operating results;. • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;. • any shortfall in investment income or net investment income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;. • conversion features of subscription rights, warrants or convertible debt;. • loss of a major funding source;. • fluctuations in interest rates;. • the operating performance of companies comparable to us;. • departure of our key personnel;. • proposed, or completed, offerings of our securities, including classes other than our common stock;. • global or national credit market changes; and. • general economic trends and other external factors.. The market for any security is subject to volatility. The loans and securities purchased by us and issued by us are no exception to this fundamental investment truism that prices will fluctuate.. We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds raised from our offerings on acceptable terms, which would harm our financial condition and operating results.. Delays in investing the net proceeds raised in our offerings may cause our performance to be worse than that of other fully invested BDCs or other lenders or investors pursuing comparable investment strategies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any investments that meet our investment objective or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds from any offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.. We anticipate that, depending on market conditions, it may take a substantial period of time to invest substantially all of the net proceeds from any offering in securities meeting our investment objective. During such a period, we have and will continue to invest the net proceeds from any offering primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, repurchase agreements and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less. 49. from the time of investment, which may produce returns that are significantly lower than the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective, and given our expense ratio and the prevailing interest rate climate, there is a possible risk of losing money on the offering proceeds from certain securities, such as debt securities during this interval. As a result, any dividends or distributions that we pay during such period may be substantially lower than the dividends or distributions that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective. In addition, until such time as the net proceeds from any offering are invested in securities meeting our investment objective, the market price for our securities may decline. Thus, the return on your investment may be lower than when, if ever, our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objective.. In addition, the SBA limits our SBIC subsidiaries, Triangle SBIC, Triangle SBIC II and Triangle SBIC III, to investing idle funds in the following types of securities:. • direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States government, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment;. • repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions with a maturity of seven days or less (and the securities underlying the repurchase obligations must be direct obligations of, or guaranteed by, the federal government);. • certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution;. • a deposit account in a federally insured institution that is subject to withdrawal restriction of one year or less;. • a checking account in a federally insured institution; and. • a reasonable petty cash fund.. If we sell common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material.. On May 3, 2017, our stockholders approved our ability to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at any level of discount from net asset value per share for a period of one year ending on the earlier of May 3, 2018 or the date of our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders. If we sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a discount to net asset value, it will pose a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in net asset value per share (as well as in the aggregate net asset value of their shares if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuances or sale. In addition, such issuances or sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades.. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our Company or the removal of our incumbent directors. Specifically, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution explicitly subjecting us to the Maryland Business Combination Act under the Maryland General Corporation Law, which, subject to limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and thereafter imposes fair price and/or supermajority voting requirements on these combinations. In addition, our Board of Directors may adopt resolutions to classify the Board so that stockholders do not elect every director on an annual basis. Also, our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause by the vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors generally. In addition, our bylaws provide that, subject to the satisfaction of certain procedural and informational requirements by the stockholders requesting the meeting, a. 50. special meeting of stockholders will be called by our secretary to act upon any matter that may properly be considered at a meeting of stockholders only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast on such matter at the meeting.. In addition, subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act, our charter permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder action, to authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third-party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for shares of our common stock.. If we issue preferred stock and/or additional debt securities, the net asset value and market value of our common stock may become more volatile.. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock and/or additional debt securities would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock and/or additional debt securities would likely cause the net asset value and market value of our common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of our common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock, or the interest rate on the debt securities, were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the use of leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued the preferred stock or debt securities. Any decline in the net asset value of our investment would be borne entirely by the holders of our common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of our common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This decline in net asset value would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for our common stock.. There is also a risk that, in the event of a sharp decline in the value of our net assets, we would be in danger of failing to maintain required asset coverage ratios which may be required by the preferred stock and/or debt securities or of a downgrade in the ratings of the preferred stock and/or debt securities or our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock or the interest payments on the debt securities. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund redemption of some or all of the preferred stock and/or debt securities. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of our common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock and/or debt securities. Holders of preferred stock and/or debt securities may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs.. The trading market or market value of our publicly issued debt securities may be volatile.. Many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities;. • the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms identical to these debt securities;. • the general economic environment;. • the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market, if any;. • the redemption or repayment, if any, of these debt securities;. • the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates generally; and. • market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the debt securities.. There also may be a limited number of buyers for our debt securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt securities.. 51. Our credit ratings, if any, may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities.. Credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. If our debt securities become rated, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. These credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed herein about the market value of, or trading market for, the publicly issued debt securities.. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect the return on our debt securities.. If our debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In addition, if the debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem the debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In this circumstance, a holder of our debt securities may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as the debt securities being redeemed. As of December 31, 2017, our December 2022 Notes were redeemable at our option. In addition, our March 2022 Notes will become redeemable, at our option, on March 15, 2018.. There is a risk that investors in our common stock may not receive a specified level of dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time and that investors in our debt securities may not receive all of the interest income to which they are entitled.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. If we declare a dividend and if more stockholders opt to receive cash distributions rather than participate in our dividend reinvestment plan, we may be forced to sell some of our investments in order to make cash dividend payments.. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC and under our notes indenture and covenants under our Credit Facility, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. See \"Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  -  Distribution Policy\" for further discussion of distributions.. The above-referenced restrictions on distributions may also inhibit our ability to make required interest payments to holders of our debt, which may cause a default under the terms of our debt agreements. Such a default could materially increase our cost of raising capital, as well as cause us to incur penalties under the terms of our debt agreements.. Our stockholders may experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan.. All dividends declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our dividend reinvestment plan are automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders that opt out of our dividend reinvestment plan may experience dilution in their ownership percentage of our common stock over time.. Future offerings of additional debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of distributions, may harm the value of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock subject to the restrictions of the 1940 Act. Upon a liquidation of our company, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings by us may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the value of our common stock, or both. Any preferred. 52. stock we may issue would have a preference on distributions that could limit our ability to make distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. In addition, proceeds from a sale of common stock will likely be used to increase our total assets or to pay down our borrowings, among other uses. This would increase our asset coverage ratio and permit us to incur additional leverage under rules pertaining to BDCs by increasing our borrowings or issuing senior securities such as preferred stock or additional debt securities.. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or national disasters may affect any market for our securities, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Terrorist acts, acts of war or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are generally uninsurable."
