[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the Company's business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, references below to (1) \"the Company\" refer to Barnes & Noble, Inc. and its subsidiaries, (2) \"Retail business\" refer to the Company's business included in the Retail segment, and (3) \"Digital business\" refer to the Company's business included in the NOOK segment, including the sales of digital content, devices and accessories.. 14. Table of Contents. Intense competition, including from the Internet and other retail sources, may adversely affect the Company's businesses.. The book business is highly competitive in every channel in which the Company operates. The Company competes with mass merchandisers, such as Costco, Target and Wal-Mart. The Company faces competition from many online distributors, notably Amazon.com. The Company also competes with other large bookstores, including Books-A-Million, and smaller format bookstores, including new Amazon retail stores and independent store operators. In addition, the Company faces competition from digital distributors, such as Amazon.com and Apple, including through digital books or \"eBooks\" and eBook readers. The Retail business's stores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail-order clubs and other retailers offering books, music, toys, games, gifts and other products in its market segments.. Some of the Company's competitors may have greater financial and other resources and different business strategies than the Company does. New and enhanced technologies, including new digital technologies and new web services technologies, may increase the Company's competition. Competition may also intensify as the Company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or established companies in other market segments expand into its market segments. Increased competition may reduce the Company's sales and profits.. The Retail business's stores compete primarily on the quality of the shopping and store experience and the price and availability of products. The importance of price varies depending on the competitor, with some of the Retail business's competitors engaging in significant discounting and other promotional activities.. Because of shifting consumer preferences and demographic shifts, coupled with the maturity of the market for traditional retail stores, the Company's sales or net income may decline unless it successfully implements its business strategies.. The Company's primary business is its operation of the Retail business's stores across the United States, and it derived a substantial majority of its sales and profits from the Retail business's stores in its most recent fiscal year. Continued increases in consumer spending via the Internet may significantly affect its ability to generate sales in the Retail business's stores. Management's strategies are subject to the risks described herein and elsewhere, and may be subject to other risks that have not yet been identified, and management cannot make assurances that its business strategies will be successful.. The Company's businesses are dependent on the overall economic environment and consumer spending patterns.. A deterioration of the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results, as well as the Company's ability to fund its growth or its strategic business initiatives.. The Retail and Digital businesses' sales are primarily dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is affected by the overall economic environment, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the Company's control. In addition, the Retail and Digital businesses' sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products, which are controlled by publishers and other suppliers.. 15. Table of Contents. If the Retail business is unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, or at all, its sales and earnings may decline.. Substantially all of the Retail business's stores are located in leased premises. The Retail business's profitability depends in part on its ability to continue to optimize its store lease portfolio as to the number of retail stores, store locations and lease terms and conditions. Its ability to do so depends on, among other things, general economic and business conditions and general real estate development conditions, which are beyond its control. The Retail business has 321 leases up for renewal by April 30, 2021. If the cost of leasing existing retail stores increases, the Retail business may not be able to maintain its existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, the Retail business may not be able to enter into new leases on acceptable terms, or at all, or it may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new retail stores in a timely manner. The Retail business's sales and earnings may decline if it fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, renew leases or relocate to alternative sites, in each case on attractive terms.. In addition to the bookstores, the Company leases two distribution centers for its B&N Retail operations: one in Monroe Township, New Jersey and the other in Reno, Nevada. The Retail business's profitability depends in part on its ability to continue to optimize its distribution centers. Its ability to do so depends on, among other things, general economic and business conditions and general real estate development conditions, which are beyond its control. Both distribution centers' leases are up for renewal in 2020. If the cost of leasing these distribution centers increases, the Retail business may not be able to maintain its existing distribution centers as leases expire. In addition, the Retail business may not be able to enter into new leases on acceptable terms, or at all, or it may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or in a timely manner. The Retail business's earnings may decline if it fails to maintain existing distribution centers, enter into new leases, renew leases or relocate to alternative sites, in each case on attractive terms.. The Company is dependent upon access to capital, including bank credit facilities and short-term vendor financing, for its liquidity needs.. The Company must have sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its working capital requirements and indebtedness. The Company believes that the combination of its cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash flow received from operations, funds available under the Company's credit facility and short-term vendor financing will be sufficient to meet the Company's normal working capital and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. If these sources of liquidity do not satisfy the Company's requirements, the Company may need to seek additional financing. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and the Company's credit rating, as well as the Company's reputation with potential lenders. These factors could materially adversely affect the Company's ability to fund its working capital requirements, costs of borrowing, and the Company's financial position and results of operations would be adversely impacted.. The Company's expansion into new products, services and technologies subjects it to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.. The Company may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow the Company's business. The Company's gross profits and margins in its newer activities may be lower than in its traditional activities, and it may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup its investments in them. In addition, the Company may have limited or no experience in its newer products and services, and its customers may not adopt its new product or service offerings, which include digital, web services and electronic devices, including but not limited to its NOOK® eBook readers and tablets, as well as new gift products and educational toys and games products. Some of these offerings may present new and difficult technological challenges, and the Company may be subject to claims or recalls if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. If any of these were to occur, it could damage the Company's reputation, limit its growth and negatively affect its operating results.. 16. Table of Contents. The complexity of the Company's businesses could place a significant strain on its management, operations, performance and resources.. The complexity of the Company's businesses could place a significant strain on its management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. The Company operates two different businesses: the Retail business and the Digital business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage the complexity of its businesses effectively. The Company's current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage its future operations, especially as it employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage the required personnel, which may limit its growth. If any of these were to occur, it could damage the Company's reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm its business.. The Company faces the risk of disruption of supplier relationships and/or supply chain and/or inventory surplus.. The products that the Company sells originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2018, the Retail business's five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 67% of the dollar value of merchandise purchased. While the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are strong, suppliers may modify the terms of these relationships due to general economic conditions or otherwise. The Company does not have long-term arrangements with most of its suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components or services, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. If the Company's current suppliers were to stop selling merchandise, content, components or services to it on acceptable terms, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, the Company may be unable to procure the same merchandise, content, components or services from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all.. The Retail business is dependent on the continued supply of trade books. The publishing industry generally has suffered recently due to, among other things, changing consumer preferences and the economic climate. A significant disruption in this industry generally could adversely impact the Company's business. A significant unfavorable change in the Company's relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect its sales and profits. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that the Company has with its key suppliers, including payment terms, return policies, the discount or margin on products or changes to the distribution model could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity.. The Company has arrangements with third-party manufacturers with respect to digital devices. These manufacturers procure and assemble unfinished parts and components from third-party suppliers based on forecasts provided by the Company. Given production lead times, commitments may be made far in advance of finished product delivery. In addition, certain of our merchandise, including electronic readers, are sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the United States, including, without limitation, from suppliers in China. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, natural disasters, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of foreign-sourced merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. The Company's relationship with strategic partners could have adverse impacts on the Company and its business.. The Company relies on third parties to provide certain services for its business. The Company's business may be adversely impacted if such third parties fail to meet their obligations or to provide high levels of service to the Company's customers. Further, the Company could be subject to claims as a result of the activities, products or services provided by these third-party service providers even though the Company was not directly involved in the circumstances leading to those claims. These claims could include, among other things, claims by the Company's customers and claims relating to data security. Even if these claims do not result in liability to the Company, defending and investigating these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from the Company's business and result in adverse publicity that could harm the Company's business.. The Company's businesses rely on certain key personnel.. Management believes that the Company's continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of certain key personnel of the Company. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain \"key man\" life insurance on any of its officers or other employees.. The Company's businesses are seasonal and the Company's results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond its control. These factors include the timing of new product releases, weather, the level of success of the Company's product releases, the timing of store openings and closings, shifts in the timing of certain promotions and the effect of impairments on the Company's assets. These and other factors could affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of the Company's financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. The Company's quarterly financial results have been and may in the future be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors.. The Company's sales are generally highest in the third fiscal quarter and lowest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. Operating results in the Company's businesses depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the third fiscal quarter.. Less than satisfactory net sales during the Company's peak fiscal quarter could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or operating results for the year, and the Company's results of operations from those quarters may not be sufficient to cover any losses, which may be incurred in the other fiscal quarters of the year.. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing upon intellectual property rights of third parties.. The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as important to its success, and it relies on trademark, copyright and patent law, domain name regulations, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect its proprietary rights. Laws and regulations may not adequately protect its trademarks and similar proprietary rights. The Company may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of its trademarks and other proprietary rights.. The Company may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of its proprietary rights. The protection of the Company's intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps it takes to protect its intellectual property may not adequately protect its rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating its proprietary rights. The Company also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights.. 18. Table of Contents. Other parties also may claim that the Company infringes their proprietary rights. Because of the changes in Internet commerce, the electronic reader and digital content business, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. Because the Company's products include complex technology, much of which is acquired from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, the Company and its suppliers and customers are and have been involved in or have been impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has been and is currently subject to, and expects to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by it of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the Company prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or the payment of damages. The Company may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that it has infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to it, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property it does not own in providing services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose primary business appears to be to assert such claims. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against the Company by any third-party is successful, if the Company is required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if the Company is unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, the Company's business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company's digital content offerings, including NOOK®, depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that it uses is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, the Company could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in its service.. The Company faces data security risks with respect to personal information.. The Company's business involves the receipt, storage, processing and transmission of personal information about customers and employees. Personal information about customers is obtained in connection with the Company's membership programs, eCommerce operations, digital media businesses, as well as through retail transactions in stores operated by the Company. The Company's online operations and the Digital business depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. We may share such information with vendors and third parties that assist with certain aspects of our business.. The Company's handling and use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws, regulations, and standards, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes and may be difficult to achieve. If the Company fails to comply with these laws, regulations and standards, it could be subjected to legal risk. Also, hardware, software or applications developed or procured internally or from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. In addition, even if the Company fully complies with all laws, regulations, and standards and even though the Company has taken significant steps to protect personal information, the Company could experience a data security breach, and its reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future sales or decreased usage of credit and debit card products. Because the techniques used to. 19. Table of Contents. obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent the Company's security measures could misappropriate the Company's or its users' proprietary information and cause interruption in its operations. Any compromise of the Company's data security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure beyond the scope or limits of insurance coverage, increased operating costs associated with remediation, negative publicity, equipment acquisitions or disposal and added personnel, and a loss of confidence in its security measures, which could harm the business or investor confidence. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee.. The Company has suffered data security breaches in the past, including the Company's discovery in 2012 that PIN pads in certain of its stores had been tampered with to allow criminal access to card data and PIN numbers on credit and debit cards swiped through the terminals. This matter has given rise to putative class action litigation, including ongoing class action litigation, on behalf of customers, banks, or other card issuers, and inquiries from federal and state government agencies. It is possible that additional litigation arising out of this matter may be filed on behalf of customers, banks, payment card companies or stockholders seeking damages allegedly arising out of this incident and other related relief. In addition, payment card companies and associations may impose fines by reason of the tampering and federal and state enforcement authorities may impose penalties or other remedies against the Company. At this point the Company is unable to predict the developments in, outcome of, and economic and other consequences of pending or future litigation or government inquiries related to this matter.. The concentration of the Company's capital stock ownership with certain executive officers, directors and their affiliates limits its stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and may involve other risks.. Leonard Riggio, the Company's Founder and Chairman, is currently the beneficial owner of an aggregate of approximately 19.3% of the Company's outstanding capital stock as of April 28, 2018.. This concentrated control may limit the ability of the Company's other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take certain actions, with which its other stockholders do not agree. In addition, there may be risks related to the relationships Leonard Riggio and other members of the Riggio family have with the various entities with which the Company has related party transactions.. Changes in sales and other tax collection regulations or inability of the Company to utilize tax credits or assets, could harm the Company's businesses or financial performance.. The Retail business and the Digital business collected sales tax on the majority of the products and services that they sold in their respective prior fiscal years that were subject to sales tax, and they generally have continued the same policies for sales tax within the current fiscal year. While management believes that the financial statements included elsewhere herein reflect management's best current estimate of any potential additional sales tax liability based on current discussions with taxing authorities, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any discussions with any taxing authority will not result in the payment of sales taxes for prior periods or otherwise, or that the amount of any such payments will not be materially in excess of any liability currently recorded. In the future, the Company's businesses may be subject to claims for not collecting sales tax on the products and services it currently sells for which sales tax is not collected. There is a risk that existing tax credits and tax assets may not be utilized or may expire.. 20. Table of Contents. The Spin-Off of Barnes & Noble Education could result in significant tax liability to the Company and its stockholders.. The Spin-Off was conditioned on the Company's receipt of written opinions from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and KPMG LLP to the effect that the Spin-Off would qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss to the Company and its stockholders, which were received. These opinions do not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the Spin-Off. These opinions assume that the Spin-Off will be completed according to the terms of the Separation Agreement and rely on the facts as stated in the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, the prospectus for the Spin-Off and a number of other documents. In addition, these opinions are based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, the Company and Barnes & Noble Education. The opinions cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect. The opinions are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts, and we cannot assure you that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. If the Spin-Off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, U.S. holders could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. holder who receives the Barnes & Noble Education Common Stock in the Spin-Off would generally be treated as receiving a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of Barnes & Noble Education common stock received, which would generally result in (i) a taxable dividend to the U.S. holder to the extent of that U.S. holder's pro rata share of the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits; (ii) a reduction in the U.S. holder's basis (but not below zero) in the Company's common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the stockholder's share of the Company's earnings and profits; and (iii) a taxable gain from the exchange of the Company's common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. holder's share of the Company's earnings and profits and the U.S. holder's basis in its common stock.. If the Spin-Off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, then the Company would recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of the Barnes & Noble Education stock held by the Company immediately before the Spin-Off.. The Company's classified Board of Directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third-party to acquire control of the Company. This could have a negative effect on the price of the Company's common stock.. Pursuant to the stockholder proposal that was approved at the Company's 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, the declassification of the Company's Board of Directors will be phased in, such that the Class II directors will stand for election for a one-year term at the 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, the Class III directors and the Class II directors will stand for election for a one-year term at the 2019 annual meeting of stockholders, and all directors will stand for election for one-year terms at the 2020 annual meeting of stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter. Until declassification is complete, the Company's classified Board of Directors could serve as an anti-takeover defense. The Company also has other anti-takeover defenses in its certificate of incorporation and by-laws. Each of the Company's defenses could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. These deterrents could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock and make it difficult to remove or replace members of the Board of Directors or management of the Company. The Company's previous shareholder rights plan expired on November 17, 2012 and was not replaced. The Board may, subject to its fiduciary duties under applicable law, choose to implement a shareholder rights plan in the future.. The Company's businesses could be impacted by changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations.. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws relating to all aspects of its business, including regulations and laws relating to the Internet, online commerce, digital content and products as well as its other lines of business (including governmental investigations and litigation relating to the agency pricing model for digital content distribution). Existing and future laws and regulations and their application and/or enforcement may impede the growth of the Internet, digital content distribution or other online services and impact digital content pricing, including requiring modifications or elimination of related pricing models, including the agency pricing model. Changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations, including, but not limited to, laws, rules or regulations related to employment,. 21. Table of Contents. wages, data privacy, information security, intellectual property, taxes, products, product safety, health and safety, imports and exports, anti-corruption, and anti-competition could diminish the demand for the Company's products and services, increase the Company's costs of doing business, decrease the Company's margins or otherwise materially adversely impact the Company's business.. The Company faces additional operating risks through the operation of the Digital business and as an Internet retailer.. The Company faces risks related to the operation of the Digital business. The Digital business's content sales decreased during fiscal 2018 and may continue to decline in the future, which could affect the Company's results of operations and liquidity. Also, the sales of digital devices and accessories declined during fiscal 2018, and there is no guarantee that the possible introduction of future NOOK® digital devices will increase future sales of digital devices or content or the earnings of the Digital business. NOOK® competes primarily with other tablets and eBook readers on functionality, consumer appeal, availability of digital content and price. The previously announced efforts to rationalize the costs associated with the Digital business also may not be successful, which may adversely impact the Company's results of operations. The Digital business faces certain risks associated with its business, including protection of digital rights and uncertainties relating to the regulation of digital content.. Business risks related to the Company's online business include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, risks associated with the adoption of new products or platforms. Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, supply chain risks, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the Internet, risks related to data privacy and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S.. NOOK® and other Company products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, many of which are located outside the United States. While the Company's arrangements with these manufacturers may lower costs, they also reduce its direct control over production. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company's flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, if reimbursement from such manufacturers is unenforceable or insufficient, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company's reputation, financial condition and operating results.. The Company, including the Digital business, may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are free of minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC), which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if the Company is unable to certify that its products are free of such minerals. The Company filed its Conflict Minerals Report for the calendar year 2017 with the SEC on May 31, 2018.. The Company relies on third-party digital content and applications, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The Company contracts with certain third parties to offer their digital content, including on NOOK® and through its eBookstore. Its licensing arrangements with these third parties do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to. 22. Table of Contents. make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company's access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, its financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. The Company's businesses could be adversely impacted if it is unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions it has made or may decide to pursue.. To enhance the Company's efforts to grow and compete, from time to time it has engaged in acquisitions and entered into joint ventures, and it may engage in acquisitions or enter into joint ventures in the future. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company's ability to identify attractive opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot make assurances that future acquisitions will be completed, or that if completed, they will be successful. These transactions may create risks such as: (1) disruption of the Company's ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; (2) the dilution of the equity interest of the Company's stockholders; (3) problems retaining key personnel; (4) increased debt to finance any transaction and additional operating losses, debt and expenses of the businesses the Company acquires; (5) the difficulty of integrating a new company's accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; (6) the difficulty of implementing at acquired companies the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; and (7) potential unknown liabilities associated with an acquired company. In addition, valuations supporting the Company's acquisitions could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. The Company could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value, which could adversely impact its financial condition."
