[1] "ITEM 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors below represent what we believe are the known material risk factors with respect to us and our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position or future financial results.. We face a volatile retail environment and changing economic conditions that may further adversely affect consumer demand and spending.. Historically, the home furnishings industry has been subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Should the current economic recovery falter or the current recovery in housing starts stall, consumer confidence and demand for home furnishings could deteriorate which could adversely affect our business through its impact on the performance of our Company-owned stores, as well as our licensees and the ability of a number of them to meet their obligations to us.. Our retail stores face significant competition from national, regional and local retailers of home furnishings, including increasing on-line competition via the internet.. The retail market for home furnishings is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national department stores, regional or independent specialty stores, and dedicated franchises of furniture manufacturers. National mass merchants such as Costco also have limited product offerings. We also compete with retailers that market products through store catalogs and the internet. In addition, there are few barriers to entry into our current and contemplated markets, and new competitors may enter our current or future markets at any time. We have recently seen electronics and appliance retailers adding limited furniture products in their stores. We have also seen increasing competition from retailers offering consumers the ability to purchase home furnishings via the internet for home delivery, and this trend is expected to continue. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including aggressive advertising, pricing and marketing, extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we offer, and expansion into markets where we currently operate.. Competition from any of these sources could cause us to lose market share, revenues and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our licensee-owned stores may not be able to meet their obligations to us.. We have a significant amount of accounts receivable attributable to our network of licensee-owned stores. We also guarantee some of the leases of some of our licensees. If these stores do not generate the necessary level of sales and profits, the licensees may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us resulting in additional bad debt expenses and real estate related losses.. Failure to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. Sales of our furniture are dependent upon consumer acceptance of our designs, styles, quality and price. As with all retailers, our business is susceptible to changes in consumer tastes and trends. We attempt to monitor changes in consumer tastes and home design trends through attendance at international industry events and fashion shows, internal marketing research, and communication with our retailers and design consultants who provide valuable input on consumer tendencies.  However, such tastes and trends can change rapidly and any delay or failure to anticipate or respond to changing consumer tastes and trends in a timely manner could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, certain suppliers may require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to produce products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time may require us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, thereby exposing us to risks relating to shifts in consumer demand and trends, and any downturn in the U.S. economy.. Our success depends upon our brand, marketing and advertising efforts and pricing strategies, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we are not successful in these efforts and strategies, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Maintaining and enhancing our brand is critical to our ability to expand our base of customers and drive increased traffic at both Company-owned and licensee-owned stores. Our advertising and marketing campaign utilizes television, direct mail, catalogs, newspapers, magazines, radio and the internet in an effort to maintain and enhance our existing brand equity. We cannot provide assurance that our marketing, advertising and other efforts to promote and maintain awareness of our brand will not require us to incur substantial costs. If these efforts are unsuccessful or we incur substantial costs in connection with these efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 7. Our use of foreign sources of production for a substantial portion of our products exposes us to certain additional risks associated with international operations.. Our use of foreign sources for the supply of many of our products exposes us to risks associated with overseas sourcing.  These risks are related to government regulation, volatile ocean freight costs, delays in shipments, and extended lead time in ordering. Governments in the foreign countries where we source our products may change their laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation and exchange controls which could make it more difficult to service our customers resulting in an adverse effect on our earnings. We could also experience increases in the cost of ocean freight shipping which could have an adverse effect on our earnings. Shipping delays and extended order lead times may adversely affect our ability to respond to sudden changes in demand, resulting in the purchase of excess inventory in the face of declining demand, or lost sales due to insufficient inventory in the face of increasing demand, either of which would also have an adverse effect on our earnings or liquidity.. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or cause production delays which might result in a decline in sales, either of which could adversely impact our earnings.. We use various types of wood, foam, fibers, fabrics, leathers, and other raw materials in manufacturing our furniture. Certain of our raw materials, including fabrics, are purchased both abroad and domestically. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could result in increased costs or a delay in manufacturing our products, which in turn could result in a delay in delivering products to our customers. For example, lumber prices fluctuate over time based on factors such as weather and demand, which in turn impact availability. Production delays or upward trends in raw material prices could result in lower sales or margins, thereby adversely impacting our earnings.. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business.  Disruptions in both our primary and back-up systems could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our primary and back-up computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters and errors by employees.  Though losses arising from some of these issues would be covered by insurance, interruptions of our critical business computer systems or failure of our back-up systems could reduce our sales or result in longer production times.  If our critical business computer systems or back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them.. We may incur costs resulting from security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information.. We accept electronic payment cards in our stores. We may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects.. We may suffer adverse impacts from additional risks associated with our entry into the freight transportation and logistics business following our acquisition of Zenith.. Our entry into the freight transportation and logistics business through our acquisition of Zenith exposes us to certain risks common to that business, including, but not limited to: difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers which could result in increases in driver compensation and could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to maintain or grow our fleet; adverse impacts from unfavorable fluctuations in the availability and price of diesel fuel; increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations in the highly regulated freight transportation industry; and adverse impacts upon Zenith’s results of operations which may result from seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions.. 8"         
