[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our home sales and operating revenues could decline due to macro-economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer confidence, declines in employment levels, inflation and increases in the quantity and decreases in the price of new homes and resale homes on the market.. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, may result in more caution on the part of homebuyers and, consequently, fewer home purchases. These economic uncertainties involve, among other things, conditions of supply and demand in local markets and changes in consumer confidence and income, employment levels and government regulations. These risks and uncertainties could periodically have an adverse effect on consumer demand and the pricing of our homes, which could cause our operating revenues to decline, thereby negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations.. The homebuilding industry is cyclical.  A severe downturn in the industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During periods of downturn in the industry, housing markets across the United States may experience an oversupply of both new and resale home inventory, an increase in foreclosures, reduced levels of consumer demand for new homes, increased cancellation rates, aggressive price competition among homebuilders and increased incentives for home sales. In the event of a downturn, we may experience a material reduction in revenues and margins. Continued weakness in the homebuilding market could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could result in additional inventory impairments in the future.. Our long-term success depends on our ability to acquire finished lots and undeveloped land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria.. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land and the risk inherent in purchasing and developing land increases as consumer demand for housing increases. The availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our investment criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, the ability to obtain building permits and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could increase, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. As competition for suitable land increases, the cost of acquiring both finished and undeveloped lots and the cost of developing owned land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline, which could adversely impact our financial results. The availability of suitable land assets could also affect the success of our land acquisition strategy and ultimately our long-term strategic goals by impacting our ability to increase the number of actively selling communities, grow our revenues and margins and achieve or maintain profitability.. The market value of our land and/or homes may decline, leading to impairments and reduced profitability.. We regularly acquire land for replacement and expansion of our land inventory within our existing and new markets. The market value of land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. When market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, option agreements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forgo deposits and preacquisition costs and terminate the agreements. In a situation of adverse market conditions, we may incur impairment charges or have to sell land at a loss, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors, which, if unavailable or unsatisfactory, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, increased prices for the labor or materials provided by these subcontractors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We conduct our land development and homebuilding operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all land development and construction work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the development of our land and construction of our homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors in the markets in which we operate, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the prices paid for the services of these subcontractors could unexpectedly increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 13. An increase in cancellation rates may negatively impact our business and lead to imprecise estimates related to homes to be delivered in the future (backlog).. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet delivered the home. Although these sales contracts typically require a cash deposit and do not make the sale contingent on the sale of the customer's existing home, in some cases a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit as a result of local laws or as a matter of our business practices. If industry or economic conditions deteriorate or if mortgage financing becomes less accessible, more homebuyers may have an incentive to cancel their contracts with us, even where they might be entitled to no refund or only a partial refund, rather than complete the purchase. Significant cancellations have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on our business as a result of lost sales revenue and the accumulation of unsold housing inventory. It is important to note that both backlog and cancellation metrics are operational, rather than accounting data, and should be used only as a general gauge to evaluate our performance. There is an inherent imprecision in these metrics based on an evaluation of qualitative factors during the transaction cycle.. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates, the unavailability of mortgage financing or a change in tax laws regarding the deductibility of mortgage interest for tax purposes may reduce consumer demand for our homes.. Substantially all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisition with mortgage financing. Housing demand is adversely affected by reduced availability of mortgage financing and factors that increase the upfront or monthly cost of financing a home, such as increases in interest rates, insurance premiums or limitations on mortgage interest deductibility. The continued decrease in the willingness and ability of lenders to make home mortgage loans, the tightening of lending standards and the limitation of financing product options have made it more difficult for homebuyers to obtain acceptable financing. Any substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing may adversely affect the ability of prospective first-time and move-up homebuyers to obtain financing for our homes, as well as adversely affect the ability of prospective move-up homebuyers to sell their current homes. Therefore, a disruption in the credit markets and/or the curtailed availability of mortgage financing may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings, as well as limitations in the capital markets or adverse credit market conditions.. The Company's credit rating and ratings on our senior notes and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. Negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. If our credit ratings are lowered or rating agencies issue adverse commentaries in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in a credit rating downgrade or change in outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing.. We could experience a reduction in home sales and revenues due to our inability to acquire and develop land for our communities if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing.. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive and homebuilding requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and to begin development. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities. If internally generated funds are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including additional bank financing and/or securities offerings. The amount and types of indebtedness that we may incur are limited by the terms of our existing debt. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced nationally, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. The credit and capital markets have continued to experience significant volatility. If we are required to seek additional financing to fund our operations, the volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access such financing. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures, we may be unable to acquire land for our housing developments, thereby limiting our anticipated growth and community count. Additionally, if we cannot obtain additional financing to fund the purchase of land under our option contracts, we may incur contractual penalties and fees.. 14. Our senior notes, revolving credit facility, letter of credit facilities and certain other debt impose significant restrictions and obligations on us. Restrictions on our ability to borrow could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our growth and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations.. Our senior notes, revolving credit facility, letter of credit facilities and other debt impose certain restrictions and obligations on us. Under certain of these instruments, we must comply with defined covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain asset sales, make certain types of restricted payments, engage in transactions with affiliates and create liens on our assets. Failure to comply with certain of these covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument. Any such event of default could negatively impact other covenants or lead to cross defaults under certain of our other debt agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any waivers or amendments that may become necessary in the event of a future default situation without significant additional cost or at all.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us and the holders of our securities, including, among other things:. • causing us to be unable to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements;. • making us more vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. • making it difficult to fund future working capital, land purchases, acquisitions, share repurchases, general corporate or other activities; and. • causing us to be limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business.. In addition, subject to the restrictions of our existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our growth plans and our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to enter into additional debt and/or equity financings. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We may not be able to do any of the foregoing on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. If we are unsuccessful in competing against our competitors, our market share could decline or our growth could be impeded and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer.. Competition in the homebuilding industry is intense, and there are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. Increased competition could hurt our business, as it could prevent us from acquiring attractive parcels of land on which to build homes or make such acquisitions more expensive, hinder our market share expansion and lead to pricing pressures on our homes that may adversely impact our margins and revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results could suffer and our ability to service our debt could be adversely affected. Our competitors may independently develop land and construct housing units that are superior or substantially similar to our products. Furthermore, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and lower costs of funds and operations than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with subcontractors and suppliers in the markets in which we operate. We currently build in several of the top markets in the nation and, therefore, we expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into our markets.. Severe weather conditions or other related events could result in delays in land development or home construction, increase our costs or decrease demand in the impacted areas.. Severe weather conditions or other related events that are beyond our direct control could impact our operations in several ways.  First, these events may cause land development or home construction delays in the impacted areas. Not only does severe weather at times halt our development and construction-related activities, but it could for our competitors as well, ultimately leading to increased competition for subcontractors, which could delay our progress even after the event has concluded.  Additionally, increased competition for skilled labor could lead to cost overruns, as we may have to incentivize the impacted region's limited trade base to work on our homes, in addition to other costs incurred to remediate the impact of the severe weather conditions on our overall job site.  Finally, severe weather and related events may also temporarily impact demand, as buyers are not as willing to shop for new homes during the event. These risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The tax benefits of our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses were substantially limited since we experienced an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, and portions of our deferred income tax asset have been written off since they were not fully realizable. Any subsequent ownership change, should it occur, could have a further impact on these tax attributes.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an \"ownership change,\" which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize. 15. its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses or deductions, as of the ownership change date, that are recognized during the five-year period after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on changes in the ownership among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the company's common stock (including changes involving a shareholder becoming a 5% shareholder) or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock or share repurchases by the company.. We believe we have significant \"built-in losses\" in our assets, i.e., an excess tax basis over current fair market value, that may result in tax losses as such assets are sold. Net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a 20-year period to offset future earnings and reduce our federal income tax liability. Built-in losses, if and when recognized, generally will result in tax losses that may then be deducted or carried forward. However, we experienced an \"ownership change\" under Section 382 as of January 12, 2010. As a result of this previous \"ownership change\" for purposes of Section 382, our ability to use certain net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses or deductions in existence prior to the ownership change was limited by Section 382.. The realization of all or a portion of our deferred income tax assets (including net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent upon the generation of future income during the statutory carryforward periods. Our inability to utilize our limited pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards and recognized built-in losses or deductions, or the occurrence of a future ownership change and resulting additional limitations to these tax attributes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Proposed changes to U.S. tax law may result in a reduced corporate tax rate while also limiting or eliminating current tax deductions.  These changes could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, our effective tax rate, and our taxable income.. Recently, the House of Representatives released a draft tax reform bill that included significant changes to the current tax code, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% and changes to a number of current deductions.  The Senate has also issued a proposal that contains a number of similarities, but also some key differences.  Our net deferred tax assets are measured using tax rates currently in effect that we expect to apply to our taxable income in the future.  The impacts of the proposed changes in tax law will be recognized in the period such legislation is enacted.  At this time, it is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law and the impact of such legislation on our business and financial results.  The proposed reduction in the corporate tax rate, in and of itself, would result in a charge to earnings from a significant reduction in the value of our existing deferred tax assets.  Additionally, while we do not anticipate the proposed changes in the corporate tax rate and calculation of taxable income would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, profitability, and/or cash flows, the ultimate outcome of any near-term tax reform and the related impact on our business and financial condition is uncertain.. We may incur additional operating expenses or longer construction cycle times due to compliance programs or fines, penalties and remediation costs pertaining to environmental regulations within our markets. Additionally, any violations of such regulations could harm our reputation, thereby negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given community vary greatly according to the location of the community site, the site's environmental conditions and the present and former use of the site. Environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to implement time consuming and expensive compliance programs and may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and similar federal or state agencies review homebuilders' compliance with environmental laws and may levy fines and penalties for failure to strictly comply with applicable environmental laws or impose additional requirements for future compliance as a result of past failures. Any such actions taken with respect to us may increase our costs or harm our reputation. Further, we expect that increasingly stringent requirements will be imposed on homebuilders in the future. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials such as lumber. Our communities in California are especially susceptible to restrictive government regulations and environmental laws, particularly surrounding water usage due to continuing drought conditions within that region.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which could cause us to incur significant liabilities or restrict our business activities.. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, the availability of water and matters concerning the protection of health and the environment. Our operating costs may be increased by governmental regulations, such as building permit allocation ordinances and impact and other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Other governmental regulations, such as building moratoriums and \"no growth\" or \"slow growth\" initiatives, which may be adopted in communities that have developed rapidly, may cause delays in new home communities or otherwise restrict our business activities, resulting in. 16. reductions in our revenues. Any delay or refusal from government agencies to grant us necessary licenses, permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of construction defect, product liability and warranty claims made against us.. As a homebuilder, we have been, and continue to be, subject to construction defect, product liability and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly, as evidenced by the water intrusion issues in Florida.. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including construction defect claims, product liability claims and related claims, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures and unique circumstances of each claim. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it can be difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. Although we have obtained insurance for construction defect claims, such policies may not be available or adequate to cover liability for damages, the cost of repairs and/or the expense of litigation. Current and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors.. At any given time, we are the subject of pending civil litigation that could require us to pay substantial damages or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.. Certain of our subsidiaries have been named in class action and multi-party lawsuits regarding claims made by homebuyers. We cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcome of the current lawsuits, or the effect that any adverse determinations the lawsuits may have on us. An unfavorable determination in any of the lawsuits could result in the payment by us of substantial monetary damages that may not be covered by insurance. Further, the legal costs associated with the lawsuits and the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors on these matters, even if we are ultimately successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to expenses incurred to defend the Company in these matters, under Delaware law and our bylaws, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. We have obligations to advance legal fees and expenses to directors and certain officers.. Our insurance carriers may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to certain of the pending lawsuits, or we may not have sufficient coverage under such policies. If the insurance companies are successful in rescinding or denying coverage, or if we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our operating expenses could increase if we are required to pay higher insurance premiums or litigation costs for various claims, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our insurance policies may not offset our entire expense due to limitation in coverages, amounts payable under the policies or other related restrictions.. The costs of insuring against construction defect, product liability and director and officer claims are substantial. Increasingly in recent years, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) have been filed against builders, asserting claims of personal injury and property damage. Our insurance may not cover all of the claims, including personal injury claims, or such coverage may become prohibitively expensive. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our cash flows.. Historically, builders have recovered from subcontractors and their insurance carriers a significant portion of the construction defect liabilities and costs of defense that the builders have incurred. However, insurance coverage available to subcontractors for construction defects is becoming increasingly expensive and the scope of coverage is restricted. If we cannot effectively recover from our subcontractors or their carriers, we may suffer even greater losses.. A builder's ability to recover against any available insurance policy depends upon the continued solvency and financial strength of the insurance carrier that issued the policy. Many of the states in which we build homes have lengthy statutes of limitations applicable to claims for construction defects. To the extent that any carrier providing insurance coverage to us or our subcontractors becomes insolvent or experiences financial difficulty in the future, we may be unable to recover on those policies, thereby negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees and the loss of their services could hurt our business.. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train or retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could hinder our business strategy and impose additional costs of. 17. identifying and training new individuals. Competition for qualified personnel in all of our operating markets, as well as within our corporate operations, is intense.. Information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business.. We use information technology and other computer resources to perform important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. Certain of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify certain security and service level standards.  Our computer systems, including our back-up systems and those of our third-party providers, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, usage errors by our employees or contractors and other related risks. A significant and extended disruption of or breach of security related to our computer systems and back-up systems may damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, sales and revenue, result in the unintended misappropriation of proprietary, personal and confidential information and require us to incur significant expense to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues.. Our stock price is volatile and could decline.. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past several years. The market price and volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions, but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our industry, operations or business prospects. The price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • factors influencing home purchases, such as availability of home mortgage loans and interest rates, credit criteria applicable to prospective borrowers, ability to sell existing residences and homebuyer sentiment in general;. • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider comparable to us;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.. Our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration is impacted by the price of our common stock. A low stock price may adversely impact our ability to reduce our financial leverage, as measured by the ratio of total debt to total capital. Continued high levels of leverage or significant increases may adversely affect our credit ratings and make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and earnings on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of both national and local factors, including, among others:. • the timing of home closings and land sales;. • our ability to continue to acquire additional land or secure option contracts to acquire land on acceptable terms;. • conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy;. • raw material and labor shortages;. • seasonal home buying patterns; and. • other changes in operating expenses, including the cost of labor and raw materials, personnel and general economic conditions.. The occurrence of natural disasters could increase our operating expenses and reduce our revenues and cash flows.. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and certain mid-Atlantic states, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, our homes under construction or our building lots in such states could be damaged or destroyed, which may result in losses exceeding our insurance coverage. Any of these events could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2017, Hurricanes Harvey and Irma disrupted our businesses in Texas, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina, which resulted in what we believe will be temporary reductions in sales and closings.. 18. Terrorist attacks or acts of war against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, terrorist attacks against the United States or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power may cause disruption to the economy, our Company, our employees and our customers, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations."
