[1] "Item  1A.    Risk Factors.. An investment in BD involves a variety of risks and uncertainties. The following describes some of the significant risks that could adversely affect BD's business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows.. Risks Relating to BD. A downturn in global economic conditions could adversely affect our operations.. Deterioration in the global economic environment, particularly in emerging markets and countries with government-sponsored healthcare systems, may cause decreased demand for our products and services and increased competition, which could result in lower sales volume and downward pressure on the prices for our products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies. A weakening of macroeconomic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers, which could result in interruptions in supply. We have also previously experienced delays in collecting government receivables in certain countries in Western Europe due to economic conditions, and we may experience similar delays in the future in these and other countries or regions experiencing financial problems.. 7. Table of Contents. The medical technology industry is very competitive.. We are a global company that faces significant competition from a wide range of companies. These include large medical device companies with multiple product lines, some of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, and firms that are more specialized than we are with respect to particular markets or product lines. We face competition across all our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold on the basis of product features, clinical or economic outcomes, product quality, price, services and other factors. In addition, we face changing customer preferences and requirements, including increased customer demand for more environmentally-friendly products.. The medical technology industry is also subject to rapid technological change and discovery. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies (such as needle-free injection technology) may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In some instances, competitors, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer, or are attempting to develop, alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. The entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations has also created pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets.. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.. A substantial amount of our revenues are derived from international operations, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our sales will continue to come from outside the U.S. in the future. The revenues we report with respect to our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A discussion of the financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we may attempt to address any impact is contained in Item 7., Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any hedging activities we engage in may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can mitigate these risks.. Changes in reimbursement practices of third-party payers could affect the demand for our products and the prices at which they are sold.. Our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among public and private sources and by country, may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products in a particular jurisdiction. Reimbursement rates can also affect the acceptance rate of new technologies and products. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems in the United States or abroad, changes in reimbursement rates by private payers, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our products or result in denial of reimbursement for those products, which would adversely affect customer demand or the price customers are willing to pay for such products. See \"Third-Party Reimbursement\" under Item 1., Business.. The reinstatement of the PPACA's medical device tax may adversely affect our results of operations.. The PPACA imposes on medical device manufacturers, such as BD, a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. While the excise tax has been suspended until the end of 2017, absent further legislative action, it will be reinstated in 2018.. 8. Table of Contents. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.. The medical technology industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation, resulting in companies with greater market presence.  Health care systems and other health care companies are also consolidating, resulting in greater purchasing power for these companies.  As a result, competition among medical device suppliers to provide goods and services has increased. Group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have also served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry could intensify competition among medical device suppliers and exert additional pressure on the prices of our products.. Cost volatility could adversely affect our operations.. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by volatility in the cost of raw materials, components, freight and energy that increases the costs of producing and distributing our products. New laws or regulations adopted in response to climate change could also increase energy costs as well as the costs of certain raw materials and components.  In particular, we purchase supplies of resins, which are oil-based components used in the manufacture of certain products, and any significant increases in resin costs could adversely impact future operating results.  Increases in oil prices can also increase our packaging and transportation costs. We may not be able to offset any increases in these operational costs.. Breaches of our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including sensitive personal information and proprietary or confidential information. In addition, some of our products include information technology that collects data regarding patients and patient therapy on behalf of our customers and some connect to our systems for maintenance purposes.  Our information technology systems have been subjected to attack via malicious code execution, cyber- or phishing- attacks, and we have experienced instances of unauthorized access to our systems in the past and expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. In addition to our own information, in the course of doing business, we sometimes store information with third parties that could be subject to these types of attacks.  Cyber-attacks could result in our intellectual property and other confidential information being accessed or stolen.  Likewise, we could suffer disruption of our operations and other significant negative consequences including increased costs for security measures or remediation, diversion of management attention, and adverse impact on our relationships with vendors, business partners and customers.  Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also create issues with product functionality that could result in a loss of data, risk to patient safety, and product recalls or field actions.  Cyber-attacks could result in unauthorized access to our systems and products which could also result in actions by regulatory bodies or civil litigation.  While we will continue to dedicate significant resources to protect the company against unauthorized access to our systems and work with government authorities to detect and reduce the risk of future cyber incidents, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated frequent, and adaptive. There can be no assurances that our protective measures will prevent future attacks that could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our future growth is dependent in part upon the development of new products, and there can be no assurance that such products will be developed.. A significant element of our strategy is to increase revenue growth by focusing on innovation and new product development.  New product development requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products and technologies, successfully complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the United States and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, and gain and maintain market acceptance of our products. In addition, patents attained by others can preclude or delay our commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance.. 9. Table of Contents. We cannot guarantee that any of our strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.. We may seek to supplement our internal growth through strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such transactions are inherently risky, and the integration of any newly-acquired business requires significant effort and management attention. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any business we may acquire into our existing business. There can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.. The international operations of our business may subject us to certain business risks.. A substantial amount of our sales come from our operations outside the United States, and we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in foreign markets, especially in emerging markets. Our foreign operations subject us to certain risks, including the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange (discussed above), the effects of local economic and political conditions, U.S. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate, foreign regulatory requirements or changes in such requirements, local product preferences and product requirements, longer payment terms for account receivables than we experience in the U.S., difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing foreign operations, differing labor regulations, potential changes to international trade agreements and treaties, changes in tax laws, weakening or loss of the protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, import or export licensing requirements, trade protection measures and restrictions on the transfer of capital across borders. The success of our operations outside the United States depends, in part, on our ability to acquire or form and maintain alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to, among other things, our production facilities and sales and distribution networks.. In addition, our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the U.S. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies and the imposition of significant fines and penalties. While we have implemented policies and procedures to enhance compliance with these laws, our international operations, which often involve customer relationships with foreign governments, create the risk that there may be unauthorized payments or offers of payments made by employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government investigations, significant criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, and negatively affect our reputation.. Under the U.S. tax code, we may also be subject to additional taxation to the extent we repatriate earnings from our foreign operations to the U.S. In the event we require more capital in the United States than is generated by our U.S. operations to fund acquisitions or other activities and elect to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax rate may be higher as a result.  Recently in the United States, there have been legislative proposals to tax profits that are earned abroad.  These, and other proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our financial results.. The June 2016 referendum result in the United Kingdom (\"UK\") to exit the European Union (\"EU\") (commonly known as \"Brexit\") and the subsequent triggering by the UK government in March 2017 of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which commenced the UK's official withdrawal process from the EU, has created uncertainties affecting business operations in the UK and the EU.  Following the referendum, there was a significant decline in the value of the British pound compared to the U.S. dollar, and continued volatility in exchange rates and economic conditions is expected as the UK negotiates its exit from the EU.  Until the terms of the UK's exit from the EU are determined, it is difficult to predict its impact but it is possible that the withdrawal could, among other things, affect the legal and regulatory schemes to which our businesses are subject, impact trade between the UK and the EU and other parties and create economic and political uncertainty in the region.. There have also been recent proposals for the U.S. to significantly modify or withdraw from certain existing international trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement.  While we cannot predict whether any such changes will be implemented, it is possible that changes to international trade agreements could materially impact our business.. 10. Table of Contents. Reductions in customers' research budgets or government funding may adversely affect our business.. We sell products to researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations.  Research and development spending of our customers can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. A number of these customers are also dependent for their funding upon grants from U.S. government agencies, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (\"NIH\") and agencies in other countries. The level of government funding of research and development is unpredictable.  For instance, there have been instances where NIH grants have been frozen or otherwise unavailable for extended periods.  The availability of governmental research funding may be adversely affected by economic conditions and governmental spending reductions. Any reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products.. A reduction or interruption in the supply of certain raw materials and components would adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.. We purchase many different types of raw materials and components used in our products. Certain raw materials and components are not available from multiple sources. In addition, for quality assurance, cost-effectiveness and other reasons, we elect to purchase certain raw materials and components from sole suppliers. The supply of these materials can be disrupted for a number of reasons, including economic conditions as described above. While we work with suppliers to ensure continuity of supply, no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. The termination, reduction or interruption in supply of these sole-sourced raw materials and components could adversely impact our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.. Interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.. We have manufacturing sites all over the world. In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. Damage to one or more of these facilities from weather or natural disasters, or issues in our manufacturing process, equipment failure or other factors, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture these products, resulting in lost revenues and damage to our relationships with customers.  In particular, damage to our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico resulting from Hurricane Maria in September 2017 could adversely impact our revenue and earnings results for fiscal year 2018.. We are subject to lawsuits.. We are or have been a defendant in a number of lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits for alleged antitrust violations and suits alleging patent infringement, and could be subject to additional lawsuits in the future. A more detailed description of these lawsuits is contained in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive regulation.. Our operations are global and are affected by complex state, federal and international laws relating to healthcare, environmental protection, antitrust, anti-corruption, marketing, fraud and abuse (including anti-kickback and false claims laws), export control, employment and other areas. Violations of these laws can result in criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and, in some cases, exclusion from participation in health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.  Environmental laws, particularly with respect to the emission of greenhouse gases, are also becoming more stringent throughout the world, which may increase our costs of operations or necessitate changes in our manufacturing plants or processes or those of our suppliers, or result in liability to BD. The enactment of additional laws in the future may increase our compliance costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations.. 11. Table of Contents. We are also subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Most of our products must receive clearance or approval from the FDA or counterpart regulatory agencies in other countries before they can be marketed or sold. The process for obtaining marketing approval or clearance may take a significant period of time and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and these have been increasing due to increased requirements from the FDA for supporting data for submissions. The process may also require changes to our products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. Governmental agencies may also impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to modify or re-register products already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market our products in those countries. Once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product, there is an obligation to ensure that all applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to be met. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies also periodically review our manufacturing processes and product performance. Our failure to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, clinical trial and other requirements of these agencies could delay or prevent the production, marketing or sale of our products and result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, closure of manufacturing sites, seizures or recalls of products and damage to our reputation. More stringent oversight by the FDA and other agencies in recent years has resulted in increased enforcement activity, which increases the compliance risk for us and other companies in our industry.. As a result of the CareFusion acquisition, we are operating under a consent decree with the FDA that was entered into by CareFusion in 2009, that affects our infusion pump business in the United States.  For more information regarding the consent decree, see \"Regulation\" under Item 1, \"Business\".. Defects or quality issues associated with our products could adversely affect the results of our operations.. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unapproved use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks or other information relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. A recall could result in significant costs and lost sales and customers, enforcement actions and/or investigations by state and federal governments or other enforcement bodies, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce future demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in significant product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in regulatory approval of new products.. Our operations are dependent in part on patents and other intellectual property assets.. Many of our businesses rely on patent, trademark and other intellectual property assets. These intellectual property assets, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business. We can lose the protection afforded by these intellectual property assets through patent expirations, legal challenges or governmental action. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, competitors may seek to invalidate patents on our products or claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property, which could result in a loss of competitive advantage or the payment of significant legal fees, damage awards and past or future royalties, as well as injunctions against future sales of our products. We also operate in countries that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to compete with us in those countries. The loss of a significant portion of our portfolio of intellectual property assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, financial condition or cash flows.. 12. Table of Contents. Natural disasters, war and other events could adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.. Natural disasters (including pandemics), war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by the United States and other governments or by our customers or suppliers in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the United States and areas outside of the United States in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.. We need to attract and retain key employees to be competitive.. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract and retain executives and other key employees, including people in technical, marketing, sales and research positions. Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. Our ability to recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and work environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and employees, our business could be adversely affected.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings resulting from our acquisition of CareFusion.. While we have realized significant cost savings to date in connection with our acquisition of CareFusion in 2015, achieving additional cost synergies may prove more difficult than expected, and it is possible that the anticipated cost synergies of the merger may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected.. Risks Relating To Our Acquisition of Bard. Completion of the Bard acquisition is subject to conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Bard acquisition will not be completed.. The obligations of us and Bard to complete the Bard acquisition are subject to satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period in connection with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the \"HSR Act\"), the receipt of any authorization or consent from certain other governmental authorities required to be obtained with respect to the merger under applicable foreign antitrust laws, approval of the listing on the NYSE of shares of our common stock to be issued in the Bard acquisition, and the absence of an injunction prohibiting the Bard acquisition. Each party's obligation to complete the Bard acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver (to the extent permitted under applicable law) of certain other customary conditions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party under the Merger Agreement (subject to the materiality standards set forth in the Merger Agreement), the performance by the other party of its respective obligations under the Merger Agreement in all material respects and delivery of officer certificates by the other party certifying satisfaction of the two preceding conditions.  Either we or Bard may, subject to certain exceptions, terminate the Merger Agreement upon mutual consent or if the Bard acquisition has not been consummated on or before January 23, 2018 (or before April 23, 2018 if all closing conditions have been satisfied other than the receipt of required competition approvals).. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the Bard acquisition for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. If the Bard acquisition is not completed, our ongoing business may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Bard acquisition, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • the market price of our common stock could decline;. • if the Merger Agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to enter into a transaction on terms equivalent to or more attractive than the terms that Bard has agreed to in the Merger Agreement;. • time and resources, financial and other, committed by our management to matters relating to the Bard acquisition could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities for our company;. 13. Table of Contents. • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers or employees; and. • we will be required to pay our respective costs relating to the Bard acquisition, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, financing and printing fees, whether or not the Bard acquisition is completed.. In addition, if the Bard acquisition is not completed, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Bard acquisition or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. The materialization of any of these risks could materially and adversely impact our ongoing business.. Similarly, any delay in completing the Bard acquisition could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other negative effects associated with uncertainty about completion of the Bard acquisition and cause us not to realize some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the Bard acquisition is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Bard acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that the Bard acquisition will be consummated.. In order to complete the Bard acquisition, we and Bard must make certain governmental filings and obtain certain governmental authorizations, and if such filings and authorizations are not made or granted or are granted with conditions, completion of the Bard acquisition may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the Bard acquisition could be reduced.. Although we and Bard have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to make certain governmental filings, to obtain the required expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act and to obtain any authorization or consent from certain other governmental authorities required to be obtained with respect to the merger under applicable foreign antitrust laws, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained. As a condition to granting termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act and to adoption of approvals of the Bard acquisition, governmental authorities may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of our business after completion of the Bard acquisition.. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, we and our subsidiaries are required to accept certain conditions and take certain actions imposed by certain governmental authorities that would apply to, or affect, the businesses, assets or properties of us, our subsidiaries or Bard and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of (i) delaying completion of the Bard acquisition, (ii) imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Bard acquisition, or (iii) otherwise adversely affecting our businesses and results of operations after completion of the Bard acquisition. In addition, we can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Bard acquisition.. Each party is subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the proposed merger is pending, which could adversely affect each party's or the combined company's business and operations.. In connection with the pendency of the Bard acquisition, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we or Bard have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us or Bard, as the case may be, as a result of the Bard acquisition, which could negatively affect our or Bard's respective revenues, earnings and cash flows, regardless of whether the Bard acquisition is completed. If the Bard acquisition is completed, such terminations, changes or renegotiations could negatively affect the revenues, earnings and cash flows of the combined company. These risks may be exacerbated by delays or other adverse developments with respect to the completion of the Bard acquisition.. 14. Table of Contents. Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Bard acquisition may not be realized.. We and Bard have operated and, until the completion of the Bard acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the Bard acquisition, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate our business with the business of Bard.. The Bard acquisition will involve the integration of Bard's business with our existing business, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. It is possible that the pendency of the Bard acquisition and/or the integration process could result in material challenges, including, without limitation:. • the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the devotion of management's attention to the Bard acquisition;. • managing a larger combined company;. • maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;. • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;. • retaining existing business and operational relationships and attracting new business and operational relationships;. • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies;. • coordinating geographically separate organizations;. • unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and. • unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the Bard acquisition.. Many of these factors will be outside of the combined company's control and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect the combined company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Bard acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on (i) each of us and Bard during this transition period and (ii) the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the Bard acquisition. In addition, the actual cost savings of the Bard acquisition could be less than anticipated.. In addition, certain risks associated with our industry and business described herein and in our public filings may become more significant following consummation of the Bard acquisition, including, but not limited to, risks relating to: the continued focus by third-party payors on cost containment and government scrutiny of the healthcare industry's sales and marketing practices, various healthcare reform proposals that have emerged on the federal and state levels and in other jurisdictions where the combined company sells its products, collective bargaining and labor activity, and the integrity of our information systems that are run by third party vendors and such vendors' ability to maintain their systems and reduce any vulnerability to natural and system disruptions and prevent cyber-attacks and other unauthorized access.. The future results of the combined company may be adversely impacted if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the completion of the Bard acquisition.. Following the completion of the Bard acquisition, the size of the combined company's business will be significantly larger than the current size of either our or Bard's respective businesses. The combined company's ability to successfully manage this expanded business will depend, in part, upon management's ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address not only the integration of two discrete companies, but also the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the Bard acquisition.. 15. Table of Contents. The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the completion of the Bard acquisition and the integration of BD and Bard.. We and Bard have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Bard acquisition and combining the operations of the two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses will be comprised of transaction and regulatory costs related to the Bard acquisition.. We also will incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the Bard acquisition and the integration of the two companies' businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. In connection with the Bard acquisition, we have incurred significant additional indebtedness, and certain of Bard's indebtedness will remain outstanding, which could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility, and will increase our interest expense.. We have substantially increased our indebtedness in connection with the pending Bard acquisition through the incurrence of new indebtedness to finance the Bard acquisition and, following the Bard acquisition, through the assumption of Bard's existing indebtedness, in comparison to our indebtedness on a recent historical basis, which could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing our interest expense.. The amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness levels following completion of the Bard acquisition, and thus the demands on our cash resources, will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the Bard acquisition. The increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the Bard acquisition could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the repayment or refinancing of our indebtedness as it becomes due and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. In addition, certain of the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Bard acquisition bears interest at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could further adversely affect our cash flows. If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the Bard acquisition, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted.. In addition, our credit ratings affect the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future or that we will be able to maintain our current rating. Furthermore, we expect that our combined company's credit ratings will be lower following the Bard acquisition, including below \"investment grade\" by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., which may further increase the combined company's future borrowing costs and reduce the combined company's access to capital.. Moreover, in the future we may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, the repayment or refinancing of our indebtedness, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. Our ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us or at all.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not be able to service all of the combined company's indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our failure to meet our debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled debt payments. We expect to be able to meet the estimated cash interest payments on the combined company's debt following the Bard acquisition through a combination of the expected cash flows from operations of the combined company. However, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations of the combined company and to utilize other methods to make scheduled payments will depend on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that these sources will be adequate. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, sell assets or refinance our indebtedness. Any such action may not be successful and we may be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The agreements that will govern the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Bard acquisition contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that may affect our ability to operate our businesses.. The agreements that govern the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Bard acquisition contain various affirmative and negative covenants that may, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur debt and the ability of us and certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, have liens on our property, and/or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or convey certain of our assets to any one person, engage in certain transactions with affiliates and change the nature of our business. In addition, the agreements also require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including financial ratios. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations and could result in a default and acceleration under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations.. Uncertainties associated with the Bard acquisition may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees of Bard or us, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company following the Bard acquisition.. We and Bard are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our respective officers and other key employees to execute our respective business plans. The combined company's success after the Bard acquisition will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees of us and Bard. Current and prospective employees of us and Bard may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Bard acquisition, which may materially adversely affect the ability of each of us and Bard to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of and after the Bard acquisition. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees of us and Bard.. Completion of the Bard acquisition will trigger change in control or other provisions in certain agreements to which Bard is a party, which may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations.. The completion of the Bard acquisition will trigger change in control and other provisions in certain agreements to which Bard is a party. If we and Bard are unable to negotiate waivers of those provisions, the counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements, potentially terminating the agreements or seeking monetary damages. Even if we and Bard are able to negotiate waivers, the counterparties may require a fee for such waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on terms less favorable to Bard or the combined company. Any of the foregoing or similar developments may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. For example, if the ratings of certain of Bard's outstanding senior notes are reduced beyond certain thresholds within certain time periods prior to or following the consummation of the Bard acquisition, Bard could be required to offer to repurchase such notes at 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date.. Following the consummation of the Bard acquisition, the combined company will assume certain potential liabilities relating to Bard, including certain products liability and mass torts claims.. Following the consummation of the Bard acquisition, the combined company will have assumed certain potential liabilities relating to Bard, including certain products liability and mass tort claims with respect to the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices and related settlement agreements and judgments. As of September 30, 2017, Bard has reported that there are: (i) approximately 25 federal and 185 state lawsuits involving individual claims by approximately 205 plaintiffs, as well as one putative class action in the United States, are currently pending against Bard's hernia repair implant products, (ii) product liability lawsuits involving individual claims by approximately 3,285 plaintiffs are currently pending against Bard in various federal and state jurisdictions with respect to Bard's surgical continence products for women and (iii) product liability lawsuits involving individual claims by approximately 1,755 plaintiffs are currently pending against Bard in various federal and state jurisdictions with respect to Bard's vena cava filter products.. Bard does not maintain or has limited remaining insurance coverage for certain of these claims and the combined company may not be able to obtain additional insurance on acceptable terms or at all that will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, in some circumstances adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture, quality or marketing of our combined company's products could result in the FDA suspending or delaying its review of our applications for new product approvals, or imposing post market approval requirements. In addition, reserves established by Bard or the combined company for estimated losses, including with respect to these claims, do not represent an exact calculation of actual liability but instead represent estimates of the probable loss at the time the reserve is established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, additional reserves may be established from time-to-time, and actual losses relating to the assumed Bard liabilities may be materially higher or lower than the related reserve. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Sales of shares of BD common stock after the completion of the transaction may cause the market price of BD equity securities to fall.. We will issue a significant number of shares of our common stock in connection with the Bard acquisition. Many Bard stockholders may decide not to hold the shares of our common stock they will receive in the Bard acquisition. Other Bard stockholders, such as funds with limitations on their permitted holdings of stock in individual issuers, may be required to sell the shares of our common stock that they receive in the Bard acquisition. Such sales of our common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price for our equity securities and may take place promptly following the Bard acquisition.. The mandatory convertible preferred stock underlying the depositary shares issued in connection with the financing of the Bard transaction may adversely affect the market price of BD common stock.. The market price of BD common stock is likely to be influenced by the mandatory convertible preferred stock underlying the depositary shares issued in connection with the financing for the Bard transaction.  The market price of BD common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by:. • investors' anticipation of the potential resale in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of BD common stock received upon conversion of the mandatory convertible preferred stock;. • possible sales of BD common stock by investors who view the mandatory convertible preferred stock as a more attractive means of equity participation in BD than owning shares of BD common stock; and. • hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving the mandatory convertible preferred stock and BD common stock."
