[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, or in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results.. Global operations  -  Changing conditions in the U.S. and foreign countries, may significantly impact our reported results of operations.. We have operations globally. Our revenues and net income may be adversely affected by economic conditions, political situations, and changing laws and regulations, as to which we have no control. Additionally, our operations could be disrupted by geopolitical conditions such as boycotts and sanctions, acts of war, terrorist activity or other similar events. Such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business globally or in certain regions. While we maintain similar manufacturing capacities at different locations and coordinate multi source supplier programs on many of our materials which would better enable us to respond to these types of events, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. Similarly, more ordinary course disruptions that are directly attributable to the foreign nature of our business, such as flight and shipping delays or cancellations, could also significantly impact business operations.. The political instability and incrementally challenging economic environment in Brazil are impacting our business. As consumers, retailers, and our customers react to the situation in the region, our unit volumes and mix of products sold are adversely impacted.  The challenges associated with the economic environment in Brazil are putting pressure on our sales and earnings.. Restructuring activities  -  Our restructuring activities and cost saving initiatives may not achieve the results we anticipate.. We are undertaking and may continue to undertake restructuring activities and cost reduction initiatives to optimize our asset base, improve operating efficiencies and generate cost savings. We cannot be certain that we will be able to complete these initiatives as planned or that the estimated operating efficiencies or cost savings from such activities will be fully realized or maintained over time. In addition, we may not be successful in migrating production from one facility to another.. Changes in market demand and competition  -  Changes in consumer demand or buying habits for our goods, an increase in substitutions, or significant innovation by our competitors, may adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to respond timely to changes in customer product needs and market acceptance of our products. We must produce products that meet the quality, performance, and price expectations of our customers. Additionally, because many of our products are used to package consumer goods, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted by changes in consumer preferences for those underlying products.. We also operate in a highly competitive industry. Our response to marketplace competition may result in lower than expected net pricing of our products.. In March of 2017, certain of our large U.S. core consumer packaged goods customers lowered their volume projections for the balance of 2017.  These lower volumes, together with the operational inefficiencies associated with the lower volumes, reduced our sales and earnings for 2017.. Goodwill and other intangible assets  -  A significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth.. We review our goodwill balance for impairment at least once a year using the business valuation methods allowed in accordance with current accounting standards. These methods include the use of a weighted-average cost of capital to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows of our reporting units. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill and/or other intangible assets to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write down these assets for the amount of the impairment. In addition, if we make changes in our business strategy or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill or intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating results. If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth. We recorded pre-tax impairment charges totaling $196.6 million ($145.5 million, net of taxes) related to the Latin America Packaging segment in the year ended December 31, 2017.  We have identified the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill as a critical accounting estimate. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of. 8. Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments - Intangible assets and goodwill\" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Key customers  -  The loss of key customers or a significant reduction in sales to those customers could significantly reduce our revenues.. Our customer base includes key (generally large) customers that are important to our success and represent a sizable portion of sales. Our required response to continued marketplace competition could result in lower than expected net pricing of our products. Furthermore, if key customers experience financial pressure, they could request more favorable contractual terms, which could place additional pressure on our margins and cash flows.. Consolidation of customer base  -  A significant consolidation of our customer base could negatively impact our business.. Many of our largest customers have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our business with our largest customers. Such consolidation may be accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. While we have generally been successful at managing customer consolidations, increased pricing pressures from our customers could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.. Raw materials  -  Raw material cost increases or shortages could adversely affect our results of operations.. As a manufacturer, our sales and profitability are dependent on the availability and cost of raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials have occurred in the past and are expected to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to reflect changes in costs in selling prices for our products. We have generally been successful in managing the impact of higher raw material costs by increasing selling prices through our contractual pass-through mechanisms with most of our customers. The disruption of raw materials from certain single-source providers could impact our supply chain. Additionally, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, and fires, may also negatively impact the production or delivery capacity of our raw material suppliers in the chemical and paper industries. This could result in increased raw material costs or supply shortages, which may have a negative impact on our profitability if the cost increases are sustained sequentially over multiple periods or, in the case of a shortage, if we are unable to secure raw materials from alternative sources.. During the third quarter of 2017, hurricanes and inclement weather struck portions of the U.S. and the Caribbean. The impact of these events flowed through to our business during the fourth quarter as these events have influenced the behaviors of some of our customers and suppliers. This includes the impact of higher raw material input prices in Latin America that were difficult to pass through to some of our customers immediately due to the challenging economic environment.. Imports and exports  -  We are subject to governmental export and import controls and duties, tariffs or taxes that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets.. Certain of our products are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required export license or through an export license exception. If we were to fail to comply with export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the Company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities.. Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm.  In addition, our global business can be negatively affected by import and export duties, tariff barriers, and related local government protectionist measures, and the unpredictability with which these can occur.  For example, we are currently working with our customers to address recent duties imposed by the U.S. government on aluminum foil sourced from China used to manufacture certain products.  Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Exchange rates  -  We have foreign currency conversion and transaction risks that may adversely affect our operating results.. In 2017, approximately 30 percent of our sales were generated by entities operating outside of the U.S. Because of this, variations in exchange rates may have a sizable effect on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign entities. Our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the Brazilian Real, but we also have foreign exchange exposure to the Euro, Argentine Peso, Mexican Peso, British Pound, and other currencies. A strengthening U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has a dilutive conversion effect on our financial statements. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar has an additive translation effect. In some cases, we sell products denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the related costs are incurred. In short, the volatility of currency exchange rates may impact our operating results.. Implementing our ERP system  -  We face risks related to the implementation of our global enterprise resource planning system.. We are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global ERP system. The ERP system is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. The ERP system will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties as a result. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect our ability to fulfill and invoice customer orders, apply cash receipts, place purchase orders with suppliers, and make cash disbursements, and could negatively impact data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades to those systems while we implement the new ERP system.. During the second quarter of 2017, we experienced manufacturing inefficiencies related to the ERP system implementation at one of our U.S. plants which was resolved in 2017.  While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise.. Acquisitions and divestitures  -  We may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire or limit ongoing costs associated with the operations we divest.. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and are regularly considering new acquisitions that we believe will provide meaningful opportunities to grow our business and improve performance in the future. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit, productivity, or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies as well as difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While we believe that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and future financial performance, we can give no assurance that acquisitions will be successful.. We also make strategic divestitures from time to time, and we may agree to indemnify acquiring parties for certain liabilities arising from our former businesses which could negatively impact future results.. Interest rates  -  An increase in interest rates could reduce our reported results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, our variable rate borrowings approximated $844.3 million (which includes $400 million fixed rate notes that have been effectively converted to variable rate debt through the use of a fixed to variable rate interest rate swap). Fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs and have an adverse impact on results of operations. Accordingly, increases in short-term interest rates will directly impact the amount of interest we pay. For each one percent increase in variable interest rates, our annual interest expense would increase by approximately $8.4 million on the $844.3 million of variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. Information technology  -  A failure in our information technology systems could negatively affect our business.. We depend on information technology to record and process customers' orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, and maintain the financial accuracy of our business records. Increased global information technology (\"IT\") security threats and more sophisticated cyber-crime pose a potential risk to the security and availability of our IT systems, networks, and services, including those that are managed, hosted, provided, or used by third parties, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Other malicious activity, such as unauthorized access attempts, phishing, attempts at monetary theft through our IT systems, computer viruses or other malignant codes may also pose a threat to our operations. If the IT systems, networks, or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or other sensitive information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power. 10. outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively and timely address these failures, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive, or business harm, which may adversely affect our business operations or financial condition.  We have experienced IT failures and breaches in the past, but they have not been material and did not significantly affect our business operations.. Credit rating  -  A downgrade in our credit rating could increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to using cash provided by operations, we regularly issue commercial paper to meet our short-term liquidity needs. Our credit ratings are important to our ability to issue commercial paper at favorable rates of interest. A downgrade in our credit rating could increase the cost of borrowing by increasing the spread over prevailing market rates that we pay for our commercial paper or the fees associated with our bank credit facility.. Litigation  -  Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.. We are, and in the future will become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. As we expand our global footprint, we become exposed to more uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments. See \"Legal Proceedings\" included in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Environmental, health, and safety regulations  -  Changing government regulations in environmental, health, and safety matters may adversely affect our company.. Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been passed and anticipated in response to concerns about Greenhouse Gas emissions and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products. Increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials, as well as energy and freight costs. It is possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. Additionally, a sizable portion of our business comes from healthcare packaging and food packaging, both highly regulated markets. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Patents and proprietary technology  -  Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to develop, acquire and retain intellectual property rights.. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may suffer. Our pending patent applications, and our pending trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks. In addition, our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. Competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues.. Attracting and retaining key personnel  -  If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be adversely affected.. Our continued success depends, in large part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel in key functions and geographic areas. Losing the services of key employees in any of our operations could make it difficult to meet our objectives. To effectively manage our global business, we will need to continue to recruit, train, assimilate, motivate and retain employees who actively promote and meet the standards of a high performance culture.. Funded status of pension plans  -  Recognition of pension liabilities may cause a significant reduction in stockholders' equity.. In December of 2013, new amendments to our U.S. pension plan for salaried and non-union hourly employees were implemented. These amendments froze all further benefit accruals for all persons entitled to benefits under the plan. While the amendments reduced some risk related to future service costs, there is still risk associated with ongoing liability re-measurement and plan asset valuations. Current accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. 11. (\"FASB\") require balance sheet recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the fair value of our pension plans' assets at a future reporting date decreases or if the discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation (\"PBO\") as of that date decreases, we will be required to record the incremental change in the excess of PBO over the fair value of the assets as a reduction of stockholders' equity. The resulting non-cash after-tax charge would represent future expense and would be recorded directly as a decrease in the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income component of stockholders' equity. While we cannot estimate the future funded status of our pension liability with any certainty at this time, we believe that if the market value of assets or the discount rate used to calculate our pension liability materially decreases, the adjustment could significantly reduce our stockholders' equity.  We have identified pension assumptions as a critical accounting estimate. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments  -  Pension costs\" and \" -  Pension assumptions sensitivity analysis\" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K."
