[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. A return to recessionary conditions or status quo in the current economic environment could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings.. Although economic conditions have improved since the end of the economic recession in June 2009, growth in gross deposit products has been slow, unemployment remains high and concerns still exist over the federal deficit and government spending, which have all contributed to diminished expectations for the economy.  A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability.  Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.. Continued low loan demand may negatively impact our earnings and results of operations.. The severe economic recession of 2008 and 2009 and the weak economic recovery since then have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and the expectation of weak general economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition, and results of operations and has reduced loan demand in our market areas.  As a result of this reduced loan demand, we have invested excess liquidity in low yielding cash equivalent assets and investment securities, which has negatively impacted our earnings.  Prolonged low loan demand in our market area could require us to continue to invest excess liquidity in these types of low yielding assets, which would continue to adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce profits. The primary source of our income is the differential or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As prevailing interest rates change, net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2013, in the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, we would be expected to experience an 8.78% decline in the economic value of equity and a 2.46% decrease in net interest income.  In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. In addition, our deposits are subject to increases in interest rates and as interest rates rise we may lose these deposits if we do not pay competitive interest rates which may affect our liquidity and profits.. Our emphasis on commercial loans may expose us to increased lending risks.. At December 31, 2013, $622.2 million, or 26.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial construction loans, including loans for the acquisition and development of property, and $378.7 million, or 16.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans.  At December 31, 2013, we had a total of 18 land acquisition and development loans totaling $20.7 million included in commercial real estate and commercial construction loans, which consist of 3 residential land acquisition and development loans totaling $5.6 million and 15 commercial land acquisition and development loans totaling $15.1 million.. Commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of loss than one-to-four family residential loans.  Repayment of commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the property to cover operating expenses and debt service.  Commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans.  Changes in economic conditions that are out of the control of the borrower and lender could impact the value of the security for the loan, the future cash flow of the affected property, or the marketability of a construction project with respect to loans originated for the acquisition and development of property.  Additionally, any decline in real estate values may be more pronounced with respect to commercial real estate properties than residential properties.. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of consumer loans secured by rapidly depreciable assets.. At December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio included $175.4 million in automobile loans, which represented 7.5% of our total loan portfolio at that date.  In addition, at December 31, 2013, other consumer loans totaled $481.6 million, or 20.6%, of our loan portfolio.  Included in other consumer loans is approximately $2.0 million in loans secured by. 19. Table of Contents. manufactured housing and mobile homes, $20.3 million in loans secured by recreational vehicles and $14.9 million in loans secured by boats.  Consumer loans secured by rapidly depreciable assets such as automobiles, recreational vehicles and boats may subject us to greater risk of loss than loans secured by real estate because any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance.. Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to lending risks.. At December 31, 2013, $683.7 million, or 29.2%, of our loan portfolio was secured by one- to four-family real estate and we intend to continue to emphasize this type of lending. One- to four-family residential mortgage lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in our local housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgages to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. Because most of our borrowers are located. in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, a prolonged downturn in the local economy, or a decline in local real estate values, could cause an increase in nonperforming loans or a decrease in loan demand, which would reduce our profits.. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate located in our primary market areas.  Continued weakness in our local economy and our local real estate markets could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Real estate values are affected by various factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters.  Continued weakness in economic conditions also could result in reduced loan demand and a decline in loan originations.  In particular, a significant decline in real estate values would likely lead to a decrease in new commercial real estate and home equity loan originations and increased delinquencies and defaults in our real estate loan portfolio.. We rely on high-average balance municipal deposits and time deposits as a source of funds and a reduced level of those deposits may adversely affect our liquidity and our profits.. Municipal deposits, consisting primarily of interest earning checking accounts, are a significant source of funds for our lending and investment activities. Over the past three years, we have significantly reduced our municipal deposits from a high of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010, or 27.2% of total deposits, to $383.0 million, or 10.5% of our total deposits, as of December 31, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the balance of municipal deposits decreased $228.6 million, or 37.4%, as a result of the planned run-off of higher-rate non-relationship based accounts.  The average balance of municipal deposit relationships is significantly higher than the average balance of all deposit relationships.  The number of municipal deposits totaled 758 as of December 31, 2013 and the average balance of an account totaled $505 thousand. Given our dependence on high-average balance municipal deposits as a source of funds, our inability to retain such funds could significantly and adversely affect our liquidity.  Further, our municipal checking accounts are demand deposits and are therefore considered rate-sensitive instruments.  If we are forced to pay higher rates on our municipal checking accounts to retain those funds, or if we are unable to retain such funds and we are forced to resort to other sources of funds for our lending and investment activities, such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, the interest expense associated with these other funding sources may be higher than the rates we are currently paying on the municipal deposits, which would adversely affect our profits.. Certificates of deposit due within one year of December 31, 2013 totaled $376.1 million, or 51.5% of certificates of deposit. The large percentage of certificates of deposit that mature within one year reflects customers' hesitancy to invest their funds for long periods in the current low interest rate environment.  If these maturing deposits do not remain with us, we will be required to seek other sources of funds, including other certificates of deposit and borrowings.  Depending on market conditions, we may be required to pay higher rates on such deposits or other borrowings than we currently pay on the certificates of deposit due on or before December 31, 2013.  We have the ability to attract and retain deposits by adjusting the interest rates offered.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our strategy of growing through mergers and acquisitions.. Mergers and acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth in the past, and remain a component of our business model.  Accordingly, it is possible that we could acquire other financial institutions, financial service providers or branches of banks through negotiated transactions in the future.  Our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions depends on various factors, including (i) our ability to identify suitable merger partners and acquisition opportunities, (ii) our ability to finance and complete negotiated transactions on acceptable terms and at acceptable prices, (iii) our ability to receive the necessary regulatory approvals and (iv), when required, our ability to receive necessary stockholder approvals.  Furthermore, mergers and acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including (i) our ability to integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and the internal controls and regulatory functions into our current operations and (ii) the diversion of management's attention from existing. 20. Table of Contents. operations.  Our inability to engage in or effectively integrate an acquisition or merger for any of these reasons could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We hold goodwill, an intangible asset that could be classified as impaired in the future. If goodwill is considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book value of goodwill would decrease.. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill, which was $122.0 million as of December 31, 2013. A portion of our goodwill balance relates to our acquired insurance companies.  These businesses have suffered declining revenues and profitability levels over the past few years.  Although the fair value of the insurance businesses currently exceeds its carrying amount including goodwill, further deterioration in financial results in future periods could cause goodwill to be impaired. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of goodwill will be reduced by the amount of the impairment.. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face substantial competition in originating loans, both commercial and consumer. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages that we do not, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans.. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages that we do not, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations. As a result, we may need to seek other sources of funds that may be more expensive to obtain and could increase our cost of funds.. Our banking and non-banking subsidiaries also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance agencies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over our banking and non-banking subsidiaries in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share, and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.. The preparation of our tax returns requires the use of estimates and interpretations of complex tax laws and regulations and is subject to review by taxing authorities.. We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense and filing returns, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.  Actual income taxes paid may vary from estimates depending upon changes in income tax laws, actual results of operations, and the final audit of tax returns by taxing authorities. Tax assessments may arise several years after tax returns have been filed.  We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions.. As of December 31, 2013, we had net deferred tax assets totaling $48.6 million. These deferred tax assets can only be realized if we generate taxable income in the future.  We regularly evaluate the realizability of deferred tax asset positions. In determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, we consider the level of taxable income in prior years to the extent that carrybacks are permitted under current tax laws, as well as estimates of future pre-tax and taxable income and tax planning strategies that would, if necessary, be implemented. We currently maintain a valuation allowance for certain state net operating losses and other-than-temporary impairments, and a charitable contribution carryover that, if unused, will expire in 2015, that management believes it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized.  We expect to realize our remaining deferred tax assets over the allowable carryback and/or carryforward periods. Therefore, no valuation allowance is deemed necessary against our federal or remaining state deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013. However, if an unanticipated event occurred that materially changed pre-tax and taxable income in future periods, an increase in the valuation allowance may become necessary and it could be material to our financial statements.. 21. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits, and by the Department as our primary regulator.  The MHC and the Company are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board.  Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock.  Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses.  Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may increase our costs of operations and have a material impact on our operations.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, we sold $6.2 million of pooled trust securities that resulted in a $1.2 million loss due to the uncertainty regarding banking institutions being allowed to hold pooled trust preferred securities under the Volcker Rule that was issued in December 2013. These securities were in a $740 thousand unrealized loss position at the time of the sale.. Legislative financial reforms and future regulatory reforms required by such legislation could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Company and the MHC, became regulated by the Federal Reserve Board.. Although savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for all depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act codifies the Federal Reserve Board's existing \"source of strength\" policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their insured institution subsidiaries by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of distress.  The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the creation of a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to assure the implementation of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws for the depository institution regulators.  Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act repealed payment of interest on commercial demand deposits, forced originators of securitized loans to retain a percentage of the risk for the transferred loans, required regulatory rate-setting for certain debit card interchange fees and contained a number of reforms related to mortgage origination.  In response to the changing regulatory environment, we have made enhancements to people, processes, and controls to ensure we are complying with new regulations. It is unclear what impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our business in the future as many of the regulations under the act are still being developed.  However, we expect that we will need to continue to make additional investments in people, systems and outside consulting and legal resources to comply with the new regulations.. While it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the related yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on us, we expect that, at a minimum, our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase, as a result of these new rules and regulations.. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being \"well capitalized\" under the FDIC's prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations.. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Company.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Company is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies and there may exist, or develop in the. 22. Table of Contents. future, risks that we have not anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves to be ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Loss of, or failure to adequately safeguard, confidential or proprietary information may adversely affect our operations, net income or reputation.. We regularly collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others and concerning our own business, operations, plans and strategies. In some cases, this confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks and mobile phishing. Mobile phishing, a means for identity thieves to obtain sensitive personal information through fraudulent e-mail, text or voice mail, is an emerging threat targeting the customers of popular financial entities.  A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches or due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions could adversely affect our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses.. If this confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost, we could be exposed to significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, civil litigation and financial loss.. Although we employ a variety of physical, procedural and technological safeguards to protect this confidential and proprietary information from mishandling, misuse or loss, these safeguards do not provide absolute assurance that mishandling, misuse or loss of the information will not occur, and that if mishandling, misuse or loss of the information did occur, those events will be promptly detected and addressed. Similarly, when confidential or proprietary information is collected, compiled, processed, transmitted or stored by third parties on our behalf, our policies and procedures require that the third party agree to maintain the confidentiality of the information, establish and maintain policies and procedures designed to preserve the confidentiality of the information, and permit us to confirm the third party's compliance with the terms of the agreement.  Although we believe that we have adequate information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as information security risks and cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities."
