[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Any investment in shares of our Class A common stock, our 8.125% Senior Notes, our 5.375% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes or our 5.125% Senior Notes or our other securities involves risks and uncertainties. The following are important risks and uncertainties that could affect our businesses, but we do not ascribe any particular likelihood or probability to them unless specifically indicated. Any of the risks and uncertainties set forth below, should they occur, could significantly and negatively affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects and/or the trading price of our Class A common stock, our 8.125% Senior Notes, our 5.375% Senior Notes, our 8.375% Senior Notes, our 5.125% Senior Notes or our other securities.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES GENERALLY. Global Economic and Market Conditions. Our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects have been and may continue to be affected both positively and negatively by conditions in the global economy and financial and commercial real estate markets generally.. Our businesses and results of operations have been and may continue to be affected both positively and negatively by conditions in the global economy and financial and commercial real estate markets generally. Difficult market and economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our businesses. Such conditions and uncertainties include fluctuating levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. Economic policies of the new administration and Congress, potential increases in interest rates and proposed tax cuts and infrastructure spending plans may change the regulatory and economic landscape. These conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global markets that may have a positive or negative effect on our operating results, including the levels of trading, investing, and origination activity in the securities and derivatives markets, the valuations of financial instruments, unexpected changes in interest rates, changes in and uncertainty regarding tax laws and substantial fluctuations in volume and commissions on securities and derivatives transactions, the absolute and relative level of currency rates, commercial real estate values in absolute terms and relative to other investing options, the volume of real estate transactions, and the actual and the perceived quality of issuers, borrowers and investors. For example, the actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.. On a consolidated basis, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 51% of our total revenues were generated by our Financial Services segment and 48% of our total revenues were generated by our Real Estate Services segment, with 1% generated within the corporate category. As a result, our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of low trading volume in the financial markets in which we offer our products and services and may be similarly impacted by downturns in the commercial real estate markets.. The global financial services and the commercial real estate markets are, by their nature, risky and volatile and are directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services and commercial real estate markets, resulting in reduced transactional volume and profitability for our businesses. These factors include:. •  economic and geopolitical conditions and uncertainties in the United States, Europe and elsewhere in the world, including government deficits, debt and possible defaults, austerity measures, changes in interest rates, and changes in central bank and/or fiscal policies, including the level and timing of government debt issuances, purchases and outstanding amounts;. •  possible political turmoil with respect to the U.S. government, the European Union and/or its member states, China, or other major economies around the world;. •  the effect of Federal Reserve Board and other central banks' monetary policies, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions, and other regulatory requirements;. •  terrorism, war and other armed hostilities;. •  inflation, deflation and wavering institutional and consumer confidence levels;. •  the availability of capital for borrowings and investments by our clients and their customers;. •  the level and volatility of interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and trading in certain equity, debt and commodity markets;. •  the level and volatility of the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities, which we refer to as \"credit spreads\";. 41. •  the difference between government benchmark yields and/or investment-grade corporate debt versus the rate of return on commercial real estate investments based on the net income that the investments are expected to generate (known as the \"capitalization rate\" or \"cap rate\";. •  commercial real estate values and transaction volumes; and. •  margin requirements, capital requirements, credit availability, and other liquidity concerns with respect to our Financial Services segment, its clients, and the customers or its clients.. Low transaction volumes for any of our brokerage asset classes generally result in reduced revenues. Under these conditions, our profitability is adversely affected since many of our costs are fixed. In addition, although less common, some of our financial services or commercial real estate transaction revenues are determined on the basis of the value of transactions or on spreads. For these reasons, substantial decreases in trading volume, declining prices, and/or reduced spreads could have material adverse effects on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Any downgrades of the U.S. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies could have material adverse effects on financial and commercial real estate markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world. This in turn could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Because of the unprecedented nature of any negative credit rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. Additionally, the negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from further sovereign debt matters with respect to the EU and/or its member states, Japan, or other major economies could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Concerns about the sovereign debt of certain major economies have caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally, and continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the various governments' financial support programs and the possibility that EU member states or other major economies may experience similar financial troubles. Any downgrades of the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S. or additional sovereign debt crises in major economies could cause disruption and volatility of financial markets globally and have material adverse effects on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Over the past year, concerns over slowing growth in China, the longer term declines in world-wide commodities prices relative to their 2008 and 2011 highs, especially for oil, and unusual changes in volatility in various securities and derivatives markets have led to uncertainties about the stability of financial markets and the likely responses of governments and central banks. Any one of these factors, or others, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. A U.K. exit from the European Union could materially adversely impact our customers, and counterparties, businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum regarding continued membership in the European Union (the \"EU\"). The exit from the EU is commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" The Brexit vote passed by 51.9% to 48.1%. The referendum was non-binding. However, on March 29, 2017, the Prime Minister gave the European Council of the EU formal written notification of the U.K.'s intention to leave the EU, triggering the withdrawl process under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to EU markets  -  including for financial services  -  either during a transitional period or more permanently. Negotiations started in earnest following the Parliamentary elections held on June 8, 2017. These negotiations under Article 50 are to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the EU access to EU financial markets. In addition, the U.K. vote to leave the E.U. may result in similar referendums or votes in other E.U. countries in which we do business.  There is proposed to be a transition period from March 29, 2019, when the U.K. is expected to leave the EU to the end of 2020. Negotiations on the terms of the transition are continuing. Negotiations for an agreement with the EU, following the U.K.'s exit could take longer and the EU could agree to a longer transition period. Although we continue to have regulated entities and offices in place in many of the major European markets, during a transitional period  -  when the terms of the U.K. exit will be negotiated  -  and beyond,  these and other risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our customers, counterparties, businesses, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Evolving Business Environments. We operate in rapidly evolving business environments. If we are unable to adapt our businesses effectively to keep pace with these changes, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The pace of change in the industries in which we operate is extremely rapid. Operating in such rapidly changing business environments involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to succeed will depend on our ability to adapt effectively to these changing conditions. If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes, we may not be able to compete effectively.. 42. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary software, network distribution systems and technologies. Our business environments are characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to:. •  develop, license and defend intellectual property useful in our businesses;. •  enhance our existing products and services;. •  develop new products and services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers;. •  respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis;. •  respond to the demand for new products, services and technologies on a cost-effective and timely basis; and. •  adapt to technological advancements and changing standards to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing conditions or customer requirements. In our Financial Services businesses, the development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify, adapt and defend our technology. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, or that we will be able to successfully defend any challenges to any technology we develop. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, customer requirements or changing industry standards, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new products, services or technologies, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Geographic Concentration. Our businesses are geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by any adverse change in the regions in which we operate.. Historically, our business operations have been substantially located in the U.S. and the U.K. While we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, we are still highly concentrated in these areas. Because we derived approximately 63% and approximately 22%, respectively, of our total revenues on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2017 from our operations in the U.S. and the U.K., respectively, our businesses are exposed to adverse regulatory and competitive changes, economic downturns and changes in political conditions in these countries. If we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Services Separation, the Newmark IPO and Distribution. The Separation and Newmark IPO. We may not yet be able to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Separation and Newmark IPO, which were completed in December 2017.. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits to us and our Real Estate Services business that were anticipated to result from the Separation and Newmark IPO in a timely manner, or at all. Such benefits may be limited in the period prior to the proposed distribution or may be delayed or not occur at all. These benefits include the following:. •  improving strategic planning, increasing management focus and streamlining decision-making by providing the flexibility for each of us and our Real Estate Services business to separately implement our respective strategic plans and to respond more effectively to different customer needs and the changing economic environment;. •  allowing each of our Financial Services business and Real Estate Services business to adopt a capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to its respective financial profile and business needs, as well as resolving the current competition for capital among our various businesses;. •  facilitating acquisitions by Newmark through the use of its Class A common stock as acquisition currency.. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons. In the interim period, we may be subject to additional risks and uncertainties which may affect our businesses or the business of Newmark, which remains our subsidiary. 43. following the Newmark IPO until the completion of the proposed distribution. Such additional risks and uncertainties may include the following:. •  the price of our Class A common stock and Newmark's Class A common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to developments following the Separation and Newmark IPO, market speculation or other matters;. •  our financial results and the financial results of Newmark may be harmed, and each of our and Newmark's ability to execute effectively upon its respective business plans may be affected adversely, by the competing demands on management's time and attention;. •  each of us and Newmark may be adversely affected by competition from larger companies and a loss of purchasing power as a result of the reduction in our size relative to our businesses prior to the Separation and Newmark IPO;. •  each of us and Newmark may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process, or as a result of uncertainties generated by the process or any developments or actions relating to it;. •  each of us and Newmark may encounter difficulties obtaining sufficient debt financing to restructure its debt or to operate or expand its businesses, and each may incur a higher cost of capital as a result of the reduction of its asset base following the Separation and Newmark IPO;. •  each of us and Newmark may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with the need to retain and compensate third-party consultants and advisors (including legal counsel); and. •  each of us and Newmark may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships or arrangements with customers, key suppliers, and other parties as a result of the Separation and the proposed distribution.. Furthermore, prior to the completion of the distribution, our securities and other compliance obligations, including associated costs, will increase significantly as our Real Estate Services business will have independent reporting obligations and compliance and other related costs. Any of these factors or others could have a negative impact on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The Distribution. The distribution is subject to various additional risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected plans or timeline, or at all, may not achieve the anticipated benefits, and will involve significant time and expense and management attention, any of which could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may, subject to market, financing and other conditions, distribute the shares of Class A common stock that we hold and will receive in Newmark pro rata to our stockholders in the distribution, which is intended to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The distribution may not be completed in accordance with any expected plans or timeline, or at all, may not achieve the anticipated benefits, and will involve significant time and expense and management attention, any of which could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, in connection with the distribution:. •  the price of our Class A common stock, as well as the Class A common stock of Newmark, could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the distribution or other action or market speculation regarding the distribution or other transactions; and. •  we and Newmark may experience delays or may fail to obtain our desired tax treatment, opinions or other approvals or clearances with respect to the distribution.. Any of these factors or others could have a negative impact on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. There is no assurance that the distribution will occur. If the distribution does not occur, our business and common stock may suffer.. As of December 31, 2017, we held 115,593,786 shares of Newmark's Class A common stock representing approximately 83.4% of Newmark's outstanding Class A common stock.  In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we held 15,840,049 shares of Newmark's Class B common stock representing all of the outstanding shares of Newmark's Class B common stock. We currently expect to pursue a distribution to our stockholders of all of the shares of Newmark's common stock that we own in a manner that is intended to qualify as generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The shares of Newmark's common stock that we owned upon the completion of the Newmark IPO are subject to the 180-day \"lock-up\" restriction contained in the underwriting agreement for. 44. the Newmark IPO.  Further, there is no assurance that we will complete the distribution. The distribution is subject to a number of conditions, even though we may distribute those shares in a tax-efficient manner to our stockholders, we may determine not to proceed with the distribution if our board of directors determines, in its sole discretion that the distribution is not in our best interest or the best interest of our stockholders.  Accordingly, the distribution may not occur on the expected timeframe, or at all.. If, following the completion of the distribution, there is a determination that the distribution is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the tax opinion with respect to the distribution are incorrect, or for any other reason, then we and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. It is a condition to the distribution that we receive an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the dstribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The opinion will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and Newmark regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel.. Moreover, notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for any other reasons. In addition, certain events occurring after the distribution may not be in our control, including certain significant changes in the stock ownership of us or Newmark after the distribution. If the distribution or a related transaction is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Any such liabilities could be substantial, and could have a negative impact on our financial results and operations.. New Opportunities/Possible Transactions and Hires. If we are unable to identify and successfully exploit new product, service and market opportunities, including through hiring new brokers, salespeople, managers and other professionals, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Because of significant competition in our market, our strategy is to broker more transactions, manage more properties, increase our share of existing markets and seek out new clients and markets. We may face enhanced risks as these efforts to expand our business result in our transacting with a broader array of clients and expose us to new products and services and markets. Pursuing this strategy may also require significant management attention and hiring expense and potential costs and liability in any litigation or arbitration that may result. We may not be able to attract new clients or brokers, salespeople, managers, or other professionals or successfully enter new markets. If we are unable to identify and successfully exploit new product, service and market opportunities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We may pursue strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or other growth opportunities (including hiring new brokers), which could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs and could dilute our stockholders. We may also face competition in our acquisition strategy, and such competition may limit our number of strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and other growth opportunities (including hiring new brokers).. We have explored a wide range of strategic alliances, acquisitions and joint ventures with other real estate services firms, including maintaining or developing relationships with independently owned offices, and with other companies that have interests in businesses in which there are brokerage, management or other strategic opportunities. We continue to evaluate and potentially pursue possible strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and other growth opportunities (including hiring new brokers). Such transactions may be necessary in order for us to enter into or develop new products or services or markets, as well as to strengthen our current ones.. Strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and other growth opportunities (including hiring new brokers) specifically involve a number of risks and challenges, including:. •  potential disruption of our ongoing business and product, service and market development and distraction of management;. •  difficulty retaining and integrating personnel and integrating administrative, operational, financial reporting, internal control, compliance, technology and other systems;. •  the necessity of hiring additional management and other critical personnel and integrating them into current operations;. 45. •  increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. •  the risks relating to integrating accounting and financial systems and accounting policies and the related risk of having to recast our historical financial statements;. •  potential dependence upon, and exposure to liability, loss or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control;. •  addition of business lines in which we have not previously engaged;. •  potential unfavorable reaction to our strategic alliance, acquisition or joint venture strategy by our clients;. •  to the extent that we pursue opportunities outside the United States, exposure to political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization and/or foreign ownership restrictions, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, foreign currency fluctuations, regulatory and tax requirements, economic and/or political instability, geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities;. •  the upfront costs associated with pursuing transactions and recruiting personnel, which efforts may be unsuccessful in the increasingly competitive marketplace for the most talented producers and managers;. •  conflicts or disagreements between any strategic alliance or joint venture partner and us;. •  exposure to potential unknown liabilities of any acquired business, strategic alliance or joint venture that are significantly larger than we anticipate at the time of acquisition, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with acquisitions, including costs in excess of the cash transition costs that we estimate at the outset of a transaction;. •  reduction in availability of financing due to credit rating downgrades or defaults by us in connection with strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and other growth opportunities;. •  a significant increase in the level of our indebtedness in order to generate significant cash resources that may be required to effect acquisitions;. •  dilution resulting from any issuances of shares of our common stock or limited partnership units in connection with strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures and other growth opportunities;. •  adverse effects on our liquidity as a result of payment of cash resources and/or issuance of shares of our common stock or limited partnership units of Newmark OpCo; and. •  a lag in the realization of financial benefits from these transactions and arrangements.. We face competition for acquisition targets, which may limit our number of acquisitions and growth opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices or other less favorable terms. To the extent that we choose to grow internationally from acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or other growth opportunities, we may experience additional expenses or obstacles, including the short-term contractual restrictions contained in our agreement with Knight Frank, which such agreement could both affect and be affected by such choice. See \"Item 1 - Business - Our Knight Frank Partnership.\" There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties.. In addition, the acquisition of regulated firms generally requires the consent of the home jurisdiction regulator in which the target is domiciled and those jurisdictions in which the target has regulated subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances one or more of these regulators may withhold their consent, impose restrictions or make their consent subject to conditions which may result in increased costs or delays.. Any future growth will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable transactional candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions, which may not be available to us, as well as sufficient liquidity and credit to fund these transactions. Future transactions and any necessary related financings also may involve significant transaction-related expenses, which include payment of break-up fees, assumption of liabilities, including compensation, severance and lease termination costs, and transaction and deferred financing costs, among others. In addition, there can be no assurance that such transactions will be accretive or generate favorable operating margins. The success of these transactions will also be determined in part by the ongoing performance of the acquired companies and the acceptance of acquired employees of our partnership compensation structure and other variables which may be different from the existing industry standards or practices at the acquired companies.. 46. We will need to successfully manage the integration of recent acquisitions and future growth effectively. The integration and additional growth may place a significant strain upon our management, administrative, operational, financial reporting, internal control and compliance infrastructure. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional employees, expand our operational, financial reporting, compliance and other control systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressure on our management, administrative, operational, financial reporting, internal control and compliance infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to our new geographic locations, markets and business lines. As a result of these risks and challenges, we may not realize the full benefits that we anticipate from strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or other growth opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we integrate and continue to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage the integration of acquisitions and other growth opportunities effectively could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Liquidity, Funding and Indebtedness. Liquidity is essential to our businesses, and insufficient liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading businesses, and perceived liquidity issues may affect the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us in both of our operating segments. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us, or a decrease in the market value of marketable securities held on our balance sheet.. We are a parent holding company with no direct operations. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating subsidiaries. We do not have any material assets other than our direct and indirect ownership in the equity of our subsidiaries and their respective operating subsidiaries. As a result, our operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are dependent on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to any of our subsidiaries, we, as an equity owner of such subsidiary, and therefore holders of our securities, including our notes, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors, and any preferred equity holders. Any dividends declared by us, any payment by us of our indebtedness or other expenses, and all applicable taxes payable in respect of our net taxable income, if any, are paid from cash on hand and funds received from distributions, dividends, loans and/or other payments from BGC U.S. and BGC Global and from Newmark. Regulatory, tax restrictions or elections, and other legal or contractual restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations, and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to a parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to meet our obligations. Certain debt and security agreements entered into by our subsidiaries contain various restrictions, including restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries to us and the transfer by our subsidiaries of assets pledged as collateral. To the extent that we need funds to pay dividends, repay indebtedness and meet other expenses, or to pay taxes on our share of BGC U.S.'s and BGC Global's net taxable income or Newmark dividends, and BGC U.S., BGC Global, Newmark and their respective subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions or dividends under applicable law, regulations, or agreements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, including our ability to raise additional funding, including through access to the debt and equity capital markets.. Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been and could in the future be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international economy and markets, with the cost and availability of funding adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. To the extent we are not able to access the debt capital markets on acceptable terms in the future, we may seek to raise funding and capital through equity issuances or other means.. Turbulence in the U.S. and international economy and markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain customers and counterparties to do business with each other or with us. Acquisitions and financial reporting obligations related thereto may impact our ability to access capital markets on a timely basis and may necessitate greater short-term borrowing in the interim, which in turn may adversely affect the interest rates on our debt and our credit ratings and associated outlooks.. Our funding base consists of longer-term capital (equity, notes payable and collateralized borrowings), shorter-term liabilities and accruals that are a natural outgrowth of specific assets and/or our Financial Services business model, such as matched. 47. fails and accrued compensation. We generally have had limited need for short-term unsecured funding in our Financial Services segment. We may, however, need to access short-term capital sources to meet business needs from time to time, including, but not limited to, financing acquisitions, conducting operations, hiring or retaining brokers, providing liquidity and funding fails, including in situations where we may not be able to access the capital markets in a timely manner when desired by us. Contingent liquidity needs are largely limited to potential cash collateral that may be needed to meet clearing bank, clearinghouse and exchange margins and/or to fund fails. A significant portion of our cash is held in our largest regulated entities, and we believe that cash in and available to these entities, inclusive of financing provided by clearing banks, is adequate for potential cash demands of normal operations such as margin or funding fails.. In our Real Estate Services business, we need to access short-term capital sources in order to originate loans and to meet other business needs from time to time, including, but not limited to, financing acquisitions, conducting operations or hiring or retaining real estate brokers, salespeople, managers, and other professionals.  Our inability to secure such short-term capital could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to the risk of failed loan deliveries, and even after a successful closing and delivery, may be required to repurchase the loan or to indemnify the investor if there is a breach of a representation or warranty made by us in connection with the sale of loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In our Real Estate Services business, we bear the risk that a borrower will not close on a loan that has been pre-sold to an investor and the amount of such borrower's rate lock deposit and any amounts recoverable from such borrower for breach of its obligations are insufficient to cover the investor's losses. In addition, the investor may choose not to take delivery of the loan if a catastrophic change in the condition of a property occurs after we fund the loan and prior to the investor purchase date. We also have the risk of errors in loan documentation which prevent timely delivery of the loan prior to the investor purchase date. A complete failure to deliver a loan could be a default under the warehouse line used to finance the loan. No assurance can be given that we will not experience failed deliveries in the future or that any losses will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. We must make certain representations and warranties concerning each loan we originate for the GSEs' and HUD's programs or securitizations. The representations and warranties relate to our practices in the origination and servicing of the loans and the accuracy of the information being provided by it. In the event of a material breach of representations or warranties concerning a loan, even if the loan is not in default, investors could, among other things, require us to repurchase the full amount of the loan and seek indemnification for losses from it, or, for Fannie Mae DUS loans, increase the level of risk-sharing on the loan. Our obligation to repurchase the loan is independent of our risk-sharing obligations. Our ability to recover on a claim against the borrower or any other party may be contractually limited and would also be dependent, in part, upon the financial condition and liquidity of such party. Although these obligations have not had a significant impact on our results to date, significant repurchase or indemnification obligations imposed on us could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We have debt, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and activities, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industries, expose us to interest rate risk and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. Our indebtedness, which at December 31, 2017 was $1,650.5 million, may have important, adverse consequences to us and our investors, including:. •  it may limit our ability to borrow money, dispose of assets or sell equity to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt service, strategic initiatives or other obligations or purposes;. •  it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy, the markets,   regulatory requirements, our operations or businesses;. •  it may impact the timeframe for the completion of the proposed distribution;. •  we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. •  it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in the economy or our businesses;. •  it may require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments;. •  it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations;. •  it may increase the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of us, which could increase future   debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; and. 48. •  we may not be able to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business  opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock; and. •  there would be a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of  operations and prospects if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing or refinance our existing debt on terms acceptable to us.. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt.. In our Financial Services business, we are dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and sufficient regulatory capital and clearing margin. Clearing margin is the amount of cash, guarantees or similar collateral that we must provide or deposit with our third-party clearing organizations in support of our obligations under contractual clearing arrangements with these organizations. Historically, these needs have been satisfied from internally generated funds and proceeds from debt and equity financings. We have also relied on Cantor's support to clear our transactions in U.S. Treasury and U.S. government agency products under the clearing agreement we entered into with Cantor in November 2008. Although we have historically been able to raise debt on acceptable terms, if for any reason we need to raise additional funds, including in order to meet regulatory capital requirements and/or clearing margin requirements arising from growth in our brokerage businesses, to complete acquisitions or otherwise, we may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our businesses, take advantage of future growth opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements.. In our Real Estate Services business, we require a significant amount of short-term funding capacity for loans we originate through Berkeley Point. As of December 31, 2017, Berkeley Point had $950 million of committed loan funding available through three commercial banks and an uncommitted $325 million Fannie Mae loan repurchase facility. Consistent with industry practice, Berkeley Point's existing warehouse facilities are short-term, requiring annual renewal. If any of the committed facilities are terminated or are not renewed or the uncommitted facility is not honored, we would be required to obtain replacement financing, which we may be unable to find on favorable terms, or at all, and, in such event, we might not be able to originate loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition, following the announcement of the Berkeley Point Acquisition and the subsequent Newmark IPO, both of our credit rating outlooks were amended to \"negative watch,\" which is subject to the successful completion of various capital raising activities.  The additional indebtedness that we incur, as well as any changes to our credit ratings and associated outlooks, may restrict our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms, and such leverage, and any resulting liquidity or credit issues, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operation and prospects.. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed herein.. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. Under the terms of our existing debt, we are permitted under certain circumstances to incur additional debt, grant liens on our assets to secure existing or future debt, recapitalize our debt or take a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our debt when due. To the extent that we borrow additional funds subsequent to this offering, the terms of such borrowings may contain more stringent financial covenants, change of control provisions, make-whole provisions or other terms that could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our businesses.. The Term Loan Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Agreement, each as amended, contain covenants that could impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things and subject to certain exceptions:. •  create liens on certain assets;. •  incur additional debt;. •  make significant investments and acquisitions;. •  consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. •  sell certain assets;. 49. •  pay additional dividends on or make additional distributions in respect of our capital stock or make restricted payments;. •  enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. •  place restrictions on certain distributions from subsidiaries.. Indebtedness that we may enter into in the future, if any, could also potentially contain similar or additional covenants or restrictions. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to adequately plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict certain of our corporate activities. Any material failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Term Loan Credit Agreement or the Revolving Credit Agreement, each as amended, as well as instruments governing our future indebtedness. Upon a material default, unless such default were cured by us or waived by lenders in accordance with the applicable agreements, the lenders under such agreements could elect to invoke various remedies under the agreements, including potentially accelerating the payment of unpaid principal and interest, terminating their commitments or, however unlikely, potentially forcing us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a default or acceleration under any of such agreements could trigger a cross default under the other agreements, including potential future debt arrangements. As long as Newmark is our subsidiary, Newmark will remain subject to restrictions under the Revolving Credit Agreement even if it has no outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Agreement. Although we believe that our operating results will be more than sufficient to cover all of these obligations, including potential future indebtedness, no assurance can be given that our operating results will be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund all of our other expenditures or to obtain additional or replacement financing on a timely basis and on reasonable terms in order to meet these requirements when due. See \"Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Credit rating downgrades or defaults by us could adversely affect us.. The credit ratings and associated outlooks of companies may be critical to their reputation and operational and financial success. A company's credit ratings and associated outlooks are influenced by a number of factors, including: operating environment, earnings and profitability trends, the prudence of funding and liquidity management practices, balance sheet size/composition and resulting leverage, cash flow coverage of interest, composition and size of the capital base, available liquidity, outstanding borrowing levels, the company's competitive position in the industry and its relationships in the industry. A credit rating and/or the associated outlook can be revised upward or downward at any time by a rating agency if such rating agency decides that circumstances of that company or related companies warrant such a change. Any adverse ratings or reduction in the credit ratings of BGC Partners, Cantor or any of their other affiliates, and/or the associated outlook could adversely affect the availability of debt financing to us on acceptable terms, as well as the cost and other terms upon which we may obtain any such financing. In addition, credit ratings and associated outlooks may be important to clients in certain markets and in certain transactions. A company's contractual counterparties may, in certain circumstances, demand collateral in the event of a credit ratings or outlook downgrade of that company.. Our acquisitions may require significant cash resources and may lead to a significant increase in the level of our indebtedness.. Potential future acquisitions may lead to a significant increase in the level of our indebtedness. We may enter into short- or long-term financing arrangements in connection with acquisitions which may occur from time to time. In addition, we may incur substantial non-recurring transaction costs, including break-up fees, assumption of liabilities and expenses and compensation expenses and we would likely incur similar expenses. The increased level of our consolidated indebtedness in connection with potential acquisitions may restrict our ability to raise additional capital on favorable terms, and such leverage, and any resulting liquidity or credit issues, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We may not be able to realize the full value of the Nasdaq payment, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. On June 28, 2013, we sold eSpeed to Nasdaq in the Nasdaq Transaction. The total consideration paid or payable by Nasdaq in the Nasdaq Transaction included an earn-out of up to 14,883,705 shares of common stock of Nasdaq to be paid ratably over 15 years after the closing of the Nasdaq Transaction, provided that Nasdaq produces at least $25 million in gross revenues for the applicable year. As of December 31, 2017, up to 9,922,470 Nasdaq shares remained payable by Nasdaq under this earn-out. In connection with the separation prior to the completion of Newmark's IPO, we transferred to Newmark the right to receive the remainder of the Nasdaq payment. Newmark recognized the receipt of the first of these payments of Nasdaq shares in the quarter ended September 30, 2017, and expects to recognize the receipt of shares ratably in the third quarter of future fiscal years. This earn-out presents market risk to us as the value of consideration related to the Nasdaq payment is subject to fluctuations based on the stock price of Nasdaq common stock. Therefore, if Nasdaq were to experience financial difficulties or a significant downturn, the value of the Nasdaq payment may decline and Newmark may receive fewer or no additional Nasdaq shares pursuant to this earn-out, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 50. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed herein.. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indentures governing our 8.125% Senior Notes, 5.375% Senior Notes, 5.125% Senior Notes and 8.375% Senior Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt (with certain exceptions, including to the extent already secured), recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of our debt instruments that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our debt when due.. We may not have the funds necessary to repurchase the 8.125% Senior Notes, the 5.375% Senior Notes, the 5.125% Senior Notes or the 8.375% Senior Notes upon a change of control triggering event as required by the indentures governing these notes.. Upon the occurrence of a \"change of control triggering event\" (as defined in the indentures governing the 8.125% Senior Notes, the 5.375% Senior Notes, the 5.125% Senior Notes and the 8.375% Senior Notes), unless we have exercised our right to redeem such notes, holders of the notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or any part of their notes at a price in cash equal to 100% of the then-outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient, available financial resources, or would be able to arrange financing, to repurchase the 8.125% Senior Notes, the 5.375% Senior Notes, the 5.125% Senior Notes or the 8.375% Senior Notes upon a \"change of control triggering event.\" A failure by us to repurchase the notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the notes. In addition, such failure may also constitute an event of default and result in the effective acceleration of the maturity of our other then-existing indebtedness.. The requirement to offer to repurchase the 8.125% Senior Notes, the 5.375% Senior Notes, the 5.125% Senior Notes and the 8.375% Senior Notes upon a \"change of control triggering event\" may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us.. The requirement to offer to repurchase the 8.125% Senior Notes, the 5.375% Senior Notes, the 5.125% Senior Notes and the 8.375% Senior Notes upon a \"change of control triggering event\" may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of us and/or the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors in our Class A common stock.. Intellectual Property. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our businesses.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on trade secret, contract, patent, copyright, and trademark law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights to proprietary technologies, products, services or methods, and our brand. For example, we regularly file patent applications to protect inventions arising from our research and development, and we are currently pursuing patent applications around the world. We also control access to our proprietary technology, and enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming.. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. We cannot ensure that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to protect our competitive advantages or that any particular patent, copyright or trademark is valid and enforceable, and all patents ultimately expire. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States, or at all. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete.. Many companies, including those in the computer and financial services industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, and trademarks and sometimes file lawsuits based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, there has been a proliferation of patents applicable to these industries and a substantial increase in the number of such patent applications filed. Under current law, U.S. patent applications typically remain secret for 18 months or, in some cases, until a patent is issued. Because of technological changes in these industries, patent coverage, and the issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of our products and services may unknowingly infringe existing patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Although we have taken steps to protect ourselves, there can be no assurance that we will be aware of all patents, copyrights or trademarks that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. Generally, it is not economically practicable to determine in advance whether our products or services may infringe the present or future rights of others.. Accordingly, we may face claims of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights that could interfere with our ability to use intellectual property or technology that is material to our businesses. In addition, restrictions on the distribution. 51. of some of the market data generated by our brokerage desks could limit the comprehensiveness and quality of the data we are able to distribute or sell. The number of such third-party claims may grow. Our technologies may not be able to withstand such third-party claims or rights against their use.. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, we recently responded to a claim by Newmark Realty Capital, Inc. (which we refer to as \"Realty Capital\") against Newmark alleging, among other things, trademark infringement under Section 32 of the Lanham Act. In connection with our answer, we filed counterclaims alleging that Realty Capital has infringed our trademarks and seeking an order cancelling Realty Capital's registered trademarks. We also separately initiated an action before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office seeking invalidation of Realty Capital's registration of a design mark that includes the stand-alone name \"Newmark.\" On November 16, 2017, a federal court in the Northern District of California issued an order denying Realty Capital's motion to enjoin us from using the name \"Newmark\" generally as a trademark, which supported Newmark's rights and longstanding goodwill in relation to the use of the \"Newmark\" name. The same order temporarily enjoined Newmark from using the name \"Newmark\" for \"mortgage banking, mortgage brokerage, loan servicing, investment brokerage, and investment consulting services in the field of commercial real estate.\" This order is in effect until a decision at trial, which is currently scheduled for January 2019. Newmark has moved the court for an order reconsidering the injunction and lifting it in its entirety, and may eventually file an appeal if necessary. In response to Newmark's request that the court stay the injunction pending reconsideration, the court ruled in Newmark's favor and has suspended the injunction as to the categories of \"investment consulting\" and \"investment brokerage.\" In advance of the motion for reconsideration hearing, Realty Capital filed a motion for a new injunction prohibiting the use of \"Newmark\" for \"any commercial real estate services\" and demanding relief more expansive than the request the Court previously denied on November 16, 2017. We believe this latest submission is legally and factually meritless and filed in bad faith and have taken, and will continue to take, appropriate action to address it. No assurance can be given as to whether these cases will ultimately be determined in our favor or that our ability to use the \"Newmark\" name will be impacted by the proceedings. Any such claims or litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could materially negatively affect our businesses. Responding to these claims could also require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement, stop selling or redesign affected products or services or pay damages on our own behalf or to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, and may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Despite these potential risks, even if we are permanently enjoined from using the \"Newmark\" name in the sectors described in the preliminary injunction order or in connection with commercial real estate services generally, we do not believe such an order would significantly affect the Company's long-term prospects.. If our licenses from third parties are terminated or adversely changed or amended or contain material defects or errors, or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business or if products or services offered by third parties were to contain material defects or errors, our ability to operate our businesses may be materially adversely affected.. We license databases and software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any material licenses were terminated or adversely changed or amended, if any of these third parties were to cease doing business or if any licensed software or databases licensed by these third parties were to contain material defects or errors, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software and databases, and our ability to operate our business may be materially adversely affected. Further, any errors or defects in third-party services or products (including hardware, software, databases, cloud computing and other platforms and systems) or in services or products that we develop ourselves, could result in errors in, or a failure of our services or products, which could harm our business. Although we take steps to locate replacements, there can be no assurance that the necessary replacements will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that we will have an ongoing license to use all intellectual property which our systems require, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. IT Systems and Cybersecurity Risks. Defects or disruptions in our technology or services could diminish demand for our products and service and subject us to liability.. Because our technology, products and services are complex and use or incorporate a variety of computer hardware, software and databases, both developed in-house and acquired from third party vendors, our technology, products and services may have errors or defects. Errors and defects could result in unanticipated downtime or failure, and could cause financial loss and harm to our reputation and our business. We have from time to time found defects and errors in our technology, products and service and defects and errors in our technology, products or services may be detected in the future. In addition, our customers may use our technology, products and services in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption for other customers. Furthermore, as we acquire companies, we may encounter difficulty in incorporating the acquired technologies, products and services, and maintaining the quality. 52. standards that are consistent with our technology, products and services. Since our customers use our technology, products and services for important aspects of their business and for financial transactions, any errors, defects, or disruptions in such technology, products and services or other performance problems with our technology, products and services could subject our customers to financial loss and hurt our reputation.. If we experience computer systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our business operations could be materially harmed.. If we experience computer systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our business operations could be harmed. We support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks internally. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business operations.. Although all of our business critical systems have been designed and implemented with fault tolerant and/or redundant clustered hardware and diversely routed network connectivity, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may prove to be inadequate. Although we operate four geographically disparate main data centers, they could be subject to failure due to environmental factors, power outage and other factors. We may be subject to system failures and outages which might impact our revenues and relationships with customers. In addition, we will be subject to risk in the event that systems of our customers, business partners, counterparties, vendors, and other third parties, including exchanges and clearing organizations, are subject to failures and outages.. We rely on various third parties for computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following, which may not in all cases be covered by insurance:. •  unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers;. •  slower response times;. •  delays in our customers' trade executions;. •  failed settlement of trades;. •  incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades;. •  financial losses;. •  litigation or other customer claims; and. •  regulatory actions.. We may experience additional systems or network failures in the future from power or telecommunications failures, acts of God or war, weather-related events, terrorist attacks, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, cyber-attacks, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Any system or network failure that causes an interruption in products or services or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by customer error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, businesses and brand name.. Malicious cyber-attacks and other adverse events affecting our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses or regulatory penalties.. Our businesses require us to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. Developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating and compliance systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including malicious cyber-attack or other adverse events, which may adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide services or products.. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures such as software programs, firewalls and similar technology to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our customers' information, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of cyber threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability or disruption of service, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, or other malicious code,. 53. cyber-attack and other adverse events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we have taken, these threats may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties including outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within us. Given the high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified.. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including customers, counterparties, exchanges, clearing agents, clearinghouses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of a cyber-attack on or breach of our operational systems, network, data or infrastructure.. There have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks in recent years in various industries, including ours, and cyber security risk management has been the subject of increasing focus by our regulators. If one or more cyber-attacks occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers' or other third parties', operations, which could result in reputational damage, financial losses, customer dissatisfaction and/or regulatory penalties, which may not in all cases by covered by insurance. Any such cyber incidents involving our computer systems and networks, or those of third parties important to our businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our financial services regulators in recent years have increased their examination and enforcement focus on matters relating to cybersecurity threats, including the assessment of firms' vulnerability to cyber-attacks. In particular, regulatory concerns have been raised about firms establishing effective cybersecurity governance and risk management policies, practices and procedures; protecting firm networks and information; identifying and addressing risk associated with remote access to client information and fund transfer requests; identifying and addressing risks associated with customers business partners, counterparties, vendors, and other third parties, including exchanges and clearing organizations; preventing and detecting unauthorized activities; adopting effective mitigation and business continuity plans to address the impact of cybersecurity breaches; and establishing protocols for reporting cybersecurity incidents. While any insurance that we may have that covers a specific cybersecurity incident may help to prevent our realizing a significant loss from the incident, it would not protect us from the effects of adverse regulatory actions that may result from the incident or a finding that we had inadequate cybersecurity controls, including the reputational harm that could result from such regulatory actions.. Natural Disasters, Weather-Related Events, Terrorist Attacks, and Other Disruptions to Infrastructure. Our ability to conduct our businesses may be materially adversely impacted by catastrophic events, including natural disasters, weather-related events, terrorist attacks, and other disruptions.. We may encounter disruptions involving power, communications, transportation or other utilities or essential services depended on by us or by third parties with whom we conduct business. This could include disruptions as the result of natural disasters, pandemics, or weather-related or similar events, such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes and floods, political instability, labor strikes or turmoil or terrorist attacks. For example, during 2012, our own operations and properties we manage for clients in the northeastern United States, and in particular New York City, were impacted by Hurricane Sandy, in some cases significantly. In 2017, several parts of the United States, including Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico, sustained significant damage from hurricanes. We continue to assess the impact on our borrowers and other clients and what impact, if any, these hurricanes could have on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events affecting only the buildings in which we operate (such as fires), or as a result of events with a broader impact on the communities where those buildings are located. If a disruption occurs in one location and persons in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to or work from other locations, our ability to service and interact with our customers and others may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communications or travel.. Such events can result in significant injuries and loss of life, which could result in material financial liabilities, loss of business and reputational harm. They can also impact the availability and/or loss of commercial insurance policies, both for our own businesses and for those customers whose properties we manage and who may purchase their insurance through the insurance buying programs we make available to them.. There can be no assurance that the disaster recovery and crisis management procedures we employ will suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant loss. Given that our employees are increasingly mobile and less reliant on physical presence in our offices, our disaster recovery plans increasingly rely on the availability of the Internet (including \"cloud\" technology) and mobile phone technology, so the disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. Although we maintain insurance for liability, property damage and business interruption, subject to deductibles and various. 54. exceptions, no assurance can be given that our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will not be materially negatively affected by such events in the future.. Environmental Liabilities and Regulations; Climate Risks. Our operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws in the jurisdictions in which we maintain office space for our own operations and where we manage properties for clients in our Real Estate businesses, and we may face liability with respect to environmental issues occurring at properties that we occupy or manage.. Various laws, rules and regulations restrict the levels of certain substances that may be discharged into the environment by properties and such laws, rules and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real estate owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may face costs or liabilities under these laws as a result of our role as an on-site property manager. Such liability may be imposed without regard to the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or our knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination.  Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site.  Insurance for such matters may not be available or sufficient.  While we believe that we have taken adequate measures to prevent any such losses, no assurances can be given that these events will not occur. Within our own operations, we face additional costs from rising costs of environmental compliance, which make it more expensive to operate our corporate offices.. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property or facilities managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in certain buildings, could increase our costs of legal compliance and potentially subject us to violations or claims. More stringent enforcement of existing regulations could cause us to incur significant costs in the future, and/or materially and adversely impact our commercial real estate brokerage and management services business.. Federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations impose various environmental zoning restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a failure by us to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject us to liability to a buyer/seller or lessee/lessor of property. While historically our Real Estate Services business has not incurred any significant liability in connection with these types of environmental issues, there is no assurance that this will not occur.. Our operations are generally conducted within leased office building space, and, accordingly, we do not currently anticipate that regulations restricting the emissions of greenhouse gases, or taxes that may be imposed on their release, would result in material costs or capital expenditures. However, we cannot be certain about the extent to which such regulations will develop as there are higher levels of understanding and commitments by different governments in the United States and around the world regarding risks related to the climate and how they should be mitigated. Regulations relating to climate change may affect the scope of services we provide to clients in their managed properties, but we expect that clients would typically bear any additional costs of doing so under applicable management agreements.. We anticipate that the potential effects of climate change may impact the decisions and analysis the employees in our Real Estate Services business make with respect to the properties they evaluate or manage on behalf of clients since climate change considerations may impact the relative desirability of locations and the cost of operating and insuring the properties. Future legislation that requires specific performance levels for building operations could make non-compliant buildings more expensive, which could materially adversely affect investments in properties we have made on behalf of clients.. Key Personnel and Employees. Our ability to retain our key employees and the ability of certain key employees to devote adequate time to us are critical to the success of our businesses, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our people are our most important resource. We must retain the services of our key employees and strategically recruit and hire new talented employees to attract customer transactions that generate most of our revenues.. Howard W. Lutnick, who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and  as Chairman of us and Newmark, is also the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cantor and President of CFGM, the managing partner of Cantor. Stephen M. Merkel, who serves as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, is employed as Executive Managing Director, General Counsel and Secretary of Cantor. In addition, Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel also hold offices at various other affiliates of Cantor. These two key employees are not subject to employment agreements with us or any of our subsidiaries.. 55. Currently, Mr. Lutnick and Mr. Merkel each spends approximately 50% of his time on our matters (including Newmark), although these percentages may vary depending on business developments at us or Newmark or Cantor or any of our or Cantor's  other affiliates. As a result, these key employees (and others in key executive or management roles whom we may hire from time to time) dedicate only a portion of their professional efforts to our businesses and operations, and there is no contractual obligation for them to spend a specific amount of their time with us and/or Cantor. These two key employees may not be able to dedicate adequate time to our businesses and operations, and we could experience an adverse effect on our operations due to the demands placed on our management team by their other professional obligations. In addition, these key employees' other responsibilities could cause conflicts of interest with us.. The BGC Holdings and the Newmark Holdings limited partnership agreements, which include non-competition and other arrangements applicable to our key employees who are limited partners of BGC Holdings and/or Newmark Holdings, may not prevent our key employees, including Messrs. Lutnick and Merkel, whose employment by Cantor is not subject to these provisions in the limited partnership agreements, from resigning or competing against us. In addition, our success in the Financial Services segment has largely been dependent on the efforts of Mr. Lutnick and our President, Shaun Lynn, and other executive officers. In the Real Estate Services segment, our success has similarly been dependent on efforts by Mr. Lutnick in connection with acquisitions and on an ongoing basis by officers such as Barry Gosin and other key employees, including some who have been hired in connection with these acquisitions. Should Mr. Lutnick leave or otherwise become unavailable to render services to us, control of us would likely pass to Cantor, and indirectly pass to the then-controlling stockholder of CFGM (which is Mr. Lutnick), Cantor's managing general partner, or to such other managing general partner as CFGM would appoint, and as a result control could remain with Mr. Lutnick. If any of our key employees in our Financial Services or Real Estate Services segments were to join an existing competitor, form a competing company, offer services to Cantor that compete with our services or otherwise leave us, some of our customers could choose to use the services of that competitor or another competitor instead of our services, which could adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Internal Controls. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective internal control environment, our operations, reputation and stock price could suffer, we may need to restate our financial statements, and we may be delayed or prevented from accessing the capital markets.. We are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal controls. The management report includes, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, internal controls over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the internal controls. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. As such, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and stock price.. Our ability to identify and remediate any material weaknesses in our internal controls could affect our ability to prepare financial reports in a timely manner, control our policies, procedures, operations, and assets, assess and manage our operational, regulatory, and financial risks, and integrate our acquired businesses. Similarly, we need to effectively manage any growth that we achieve in such a way as to ensure continuing compliance with all applicable internal control, financial reporting, and legal and regulatory requirements. Any failures to ensure full compliance with internal control and financial reporting requirements could result in restatement, delay or prevent us from accessing the capital markets, and harm our reputation and the market price for our Class A common stock.. Ongoing compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as compliance with current and future regulatory control requirements, including those imposed or expected to be imposed by the FCA or other international regulators, may require significant expenses and divert management resources from our operations and could require a restructuring of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations, or restructuring could be disruptive and have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 56. Seasonality. The financial services and commercial real estate services markets in which we operate are generally affected by seasonality, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period.. Traditionally, the financial markets around the world experience lower volume during the summer and at the end of the year due to a general slowdown in the business environment around holiday seasons, and, therefore, our transaction volume levels may decrease during those periods. The timing of local holidays also affects transaction volumes.. With respect to the commercial real estate industry, due to the strong desire of many market participants to close real estate transactions prior to the end of a calendar year, our commercial real estate business exhibits certain seasonality, with our revenue tending to be lowest in the first quarter and strongest in the fourth quarter. While the seasonality in our two segments may be offsetting, these factors could have a material effect on our results of operations in any given period.. The seasonality of our businesses makes it difficult to determine during the course of the year whether planned results will be achieved, and thus to adjust to changes in expectations. To the extent that we are not able to identify and adjust for changes in expectations or we are confronted with negative conditions that inordinately impact seasonal norms, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Income Tax Regulations. Possible Impact of Final Income Tax Regulations. On October 13, 2016, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service released final regulations regarding the treatment of certain related party corporate debt as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These regulations include provisions that may adversely affect the tax consequences of common transactions, including intercompany obligations and/or financing. These changes are expected to impact many companies in the financial services sector, including several of our customers and competitors. These regulations could have an adverse impact on our income tax position or could possibly cause us to change the manner in which we conduct certain financial activities in ways that impose other costs on us. Due to the short time these regulations have been in effect, we are unable to determine the extent, if any, to which these regulations would adversely affect our businesses, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, \"H.R.1,\" formerly known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\")\" was signed into law in the U.S.  The Tax Act is expected to have a favorable impact on the Company's effective tax rate and net income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles both in the first quarter of 2018 and subsequent reporting periods to which the Tax Act is effective.  The final impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimate for the provision for income taxes, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations, additional guidance that may be issued, unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits, and actions taken by the Company as a result of the Tax Act.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT. General Financial Services Market Conditions. Consolidation and concentration of market share in the banking, brokerage, exchange and financial services industries could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects because we may not be able to compete successfully.. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and concentration of market share among companies in the banking, financial brokerage, exchange, and financial services industries, resulting in increasingly large existing and potential competitors, and increased concentration in markets dominated by some of our largest customers. In addition, some of our large broker-dealer customers, such as Deutsche Bank, Barclays, and Credit Suisse have announced plans to further reduce their sales and trading businesses in fixed income, currency, and commodities. This is in addition to the drastic reductions in these businesses already completed by customers, including Morgan Stanley, UBS, and The Royal Bank of Scotland.. The combination of this consolidation and concentration of market share and the reduction by large customers of certain businesses may lead to increased concentration among our broker-dealer customers, which may reduce our ability to negotiate pricing and other matters with our customers and lower volumes. Additionally, the sales and trading global revenue market share has become increasingly concentrated over the past five years among five of the top investment banks across equities, fixed income, currencies and commodities asset classes.. We also face existing and potential competition from large exchanges, which seek or may seek to migrate trading from the inter-dealer market to their own. Consolidation and concentration of market share are occurring in this area as well. For example, in recent years, BATS Global Markets acquired the foreign-exchange trading venue, Hotspot from KCG Holdings, while BATS itself. 57. announced plans to be acquired by CBOE. In addition, Deutsche Bourse and LSE Group announced their intention to merge; the Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing Limited acquired the London Metal Exchange; and ICE completed the acquisition of NYSE Euronext. Consolidation among exchanges may increase their financial resources and ability to compete with us.. Continued consolidation and concentration of market share in the financial services industry and especially among our customers could lead to the exertion of additional pricing pressure by our customers, impacting the commissions and spreads we generate from our brokerage services. Further, the consolidation and concentration among exchanges, and expansion by these exchanges into derivative and other non-equity trading markets, will increase competition for customer trades and place additional pricing pressure on commissions and spreads. These developments have increased competition from firms with potentially greater access to capital resources than we have. Finally, consolidation among our competitors other than exchange firms could result in increased resources and product or service offerings for our competitors. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Actions taken by central banks in major global economies may have a material negative impact on our businesses.. In recent years, policies undertaken by certain central banks, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of England, have involved quantitative easing or the buying and selling of currencies in the foreign exchange market. Quantitative easing involves open market transactions by monetary authorities to stimulate economic activity through the purchase of assets of longer maturity and has the effect of lowering interest rates further out on the yield curve.. For example, as of January 3, 2018, the U.S. Federal Reserve held approximately $3.4 trillion worth of long-dated U.S. Treasury and Federal Agency securities which are not being traded or hedged. This compares to $1.7 trillion at the beginning of 2011 and zero prior to September 2008. This has reduced volatility and volumes for listed and OTC interest rate products in the U.S. Although the Federal Reserve has ceased purchases, it continues to hold substantially all of the securities purchased. In addition, despite the recent increase in interest rates, the Federal Reserve may continue to use traditional methods to keep short-term interest rates low by historical standards.. Recently, central banks in other jurisdictions, including the EU, Japan and China, have undertaken quantitative easing and other steps aimed at reducing interest rates and stimulating their economies through monetary policy. In these jurisdictions also, interest rates are expected to remain low by historical standards for some time to come.. Similarly, global FX volumes were muted over various periods during the past several years, largely because certain major central banks, such as those in Japan and China, intervened to keep global currencies from appreciating, and because low interest rates (themselves partially a result of quantitative easing) in most major economies make carry-trade strategies less appealing for FX market participants. In addition, increased capital requirements for banks and other financial institutions are likely to result in increased holdings of government securities, which holdings will be less likely to be traded or hedged, thus reducing further transaction volumes in those securities. Since the new capital requirements make it more expensive for the banks and other financial institutions to hold assets other than government securities, the new requirements may also reduce their trading and hedging activities in corporate and asset-backed fixed income securities as well as in various other OTC cash and derivative instruments. Moreover, many of our large bank customers have faced increasing regulatory scrutiny of their rates and FX businesses, and this may negatively impact industry volumes. These central banking policies may materially adversely affect our businesses, particularly our rates and FX operations.. The migration of OTC swaps to SEF markets may adversely impact volumes, liquidity and demand for our services in certain markets.. BGC Derivative Markets and GFI Swaps Exchange, our subsidiaries, began operating as SEFs on October 2, 2013. Both BGC Derivative Markets and GFI Swaps Exchange received permanent registration approval from the CFTC as SEFs on January 22, 2016. Mandatory Dodd-Frank Act compliant execution on SEFs by eligible U.S. persons commenced in February 2014 for \"made available to trade\" products, and a wide range of other rules relating to the execution and clearing of derivative products have been finalized with implementation periods in 2016 and beyond.. Although we believe that BGC Derivative Markets and GFI Swaps Exchange are in compliance with applicable rules, no assurance can be given that this will always be the case, that the market for these products will not be less robust, that there may accordingly be less volume and liquidity in these markets, that there may be less demand for our services or the market in general or that the industry will not experience disruptions as customers or market participants transition to the rules associated with the Dodd-Frank Act. While we continue to have a compliance framework in place to comply with both existing and proposed rules and regulations, including any potential relaxation of rules and regulations, our businesses in these products could be significantly reduced and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by applicable regulations.. 58. Even after the award of permanent registration status to our SEFs, we will incur significant additional costs, our revenues may be lower than in the past and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by future events.. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated that certain cleared swaps (subject to an exemption from the clearing requirement) trade on either a DCM or SEF. SEF and DCM core principles relate to trading and product requirements, compliance and audit-trail obligations, governance and disciplinary requirements, operational capabilities, surveillance obligations and financial information and resource requirements. While these principles may or may not be permanently enforced, we do know that we will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework going forward, and that there will be significant costs to prepare for and to comply with these ongoing regulatory requirements and potential amendments. We will incur increased legal fees, personnel expenses and other costs, as we work to analyze and implement the necessary legal structure for full compliance with all applicable regulations. There will also be significant costs related to the development, operation and enhancement of our technology relating to trade execution, trade reporting, surveillance, compliance and back-up and disaster recovery plans designed to meet the requirements of the regulators.. In addition, it is not clear at this point what the impact of these rules and regulations will be on the markets in which we currently provide our SEF services. During the continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules, the markets for cleared and non-cleared swaps may continue to be less robust, there may be less volume and liquidity in these markets and there may be less demand for our services.. Certain banks and other institutions may continue to be limited in their conduct of proprietary trading and may be further limited from trading in certain derivatives. The new rules, including the proprietary trading restrictions for certain banks and other institutions, could materially impact transaction volumes and liquidity in these markets and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely impacted as a result.. If we fail to continue to qualify as a SEF under any of these conditions, we may be unable to maintain our position as a provider of execution and brokerage services in the markets for many of the OTC products for which we have traditionally acted as an intermediary. This would have a broad impact on us and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results operations and prospects.. Our commodities derivatives activities, including those related to electricity, natural gas and environmental interests, subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and other risks that may result in our incurring significant costs and liabilities.. We engage in the brokerage of commodities derivatives, including those involving electric power and natural gas, and related products and indices. These activities subject us and our customers to extensive regulatory oversight, involving federal, state and local and foreign commodities, energy, environmental, and other governmental laws and regulations and may result in our incurring significant costs and liabilities.. We or our clients may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related activities, including trading of electricity, natural gas, and environmental interests. New regulation of OTC derivatives markets in the U.S. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and new requirements on the commodities derivatives activities of us and our customers. Therefore, the overall reputation of us or our clients may be adversely affected by the current or future regulatory environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and fines for market participants.. The commodities-related activities of us and our clients are also subject to the risk of unforeseen catastrophic events, many of which are outside of our control, which could result in significant liabilities for us or our customers. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks, and the insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. The occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from performing under our agreements with customers, may impair our operations, and may result in litigation, regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm, which could have a material negative effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Regulatory/Legal. The financial services industry in which we operate is subject to significant regulation. We are subject to regulatory capital requirements on our regulated businesses, and a significant operating loss or any extraordinary charge against capital could materially adversely affect our ability to expand or, depending upon the magnitude of the loss or charge, even to maintain the current level of our businesses.. Many aspects of our businesses, like those of other financial intermediary firms, are subject to significant capital requirements. In the U.S., the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA and various other regulatory bodies have stringent provisions with. 59. respect to capital applicable to the operation of brokerage firms, which vary depending upon the nature and extent of these entities' activities. Five of our subsidiaries, BGCF, GFI Securities LLC, Kyte Securities LLC, Sunrise Brokers LLC and Mint are registered with the SEC and subject to the Uniform Net Capital Requirements. As Futures Commissions Merchants (\"FCMs\"), BGCF and Mint are also subject to CFTC capital requirements. BGCF is also a member of the FICC, which imposes capital requirements on its members. We also hold a 49% limited partnership interest in Aqua, a U.S. registered broker-dealer and ATS. These entities are subject to SEC, FINRA, CFTC and NFA net capital requirements. In addition, our SEFs, BGC Derivative Markets and GFI Swaps Exchange, are required to maintain financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year, keeping at least enough cash or highly liquid securities to cover six months' operating costs.. Our international operations are also subject to capital requirements in their local jurisdictions. BGC Brokers L.P., BGC European Holdings, L.P., CSC Commodities Limited, GFI Brokers Limited, GFI Securities Limited and Sunrise Brokers LLP, which are based in the U.K., are currently subject to capital requirements established by the FCA. The FCA applies stringent provisions with respect to capital applicable to the operation of these brokerage firms, which vary depending upon the nature and extent of their activities. The provisions relating to capital and liquidity requirements enforced by the FCA have undergone significant change in recent years, and our U.K. businesses are now required to maintain significantly higher regulatory levels of capital than they have in the past.. In addition, the majority of our other foreign subsidiaries are subject to similar regulation by the relevant authorities in the countries in which they do business, such as Australia, France and Hong Kong. These regulations often include minimum capital requirements, which are subject to change. Further, we may become subject to capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or in which we may enter.. We expect to continue to maintain levels of capital in excess of regulatory minimums. Should we fail to maintain the required capital, we may be required to reduce or suspend our broker-dealer operations during the period that we are not in compliance with capital requirements, and may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration or withdrawal of authorization or other disciplinary action from domestic and international regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, should we fail to maintain the capital required by clearing organizations of which we are a member, our ability to clear through those clearing organizations may be impaired, which may materially adversely affect our ability to process trades.. If the capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against capital, our operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which, in turn, could limit our ability to pay our indebtedness and other expenses, dividends on our Class A common stock, and distributions on our BGC Holdings limited partnership interests, and to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock or purchase BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners and others, and pursue strategic acquisitions or other growth opportunities. It is possible that capital requirements may also be relaxed as a result of future changes in U.S. regulation, although no assurance can be given that such changes will occur. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing. No assurance can be given that required capital levels will remain stable or that we will not incur substantial expenses in connection with maintaining current or increased capital levels or engaging in business restructurings or other activities in response to these requirements.. In addition, financial intermediary firms such as ours are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts, including for example principal trading and trading to make markets. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, and we will regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies, controls and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or customer claims.. Our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by new laws, rules or regulations or by changes in existing law, rules or regulations or the application thereof.. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for additional legislation further regulating the financial services industry are periodically introduced in the U.S., the EU and other geographic areas. Moreover, the agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their rules and regulations, particularly as these agencies have increased the focus and intensity of their regulation of the financial services industry.. Changes in legislation and in the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, the U.S. Treasury, the FCA, the European Commission, the ESMA and other domestic and international regulators and self-regulatory organizations, as well as changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, often directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers and could result in restrictions in the way we conduct our businesses. For example, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, SEC and the CFTC are continuing to review the nature and scope of their regulation and oversight of the government securities markets and U.S. markets. The second Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (\"MiFID II\") was published by the European Securities and Markets Authority (\"ESMA\") in September 2015, and implementation commenced in January 2018.  MiFID II requires a significant part of the market in these instruments to trade on trading venues subject to transparency regimes, not only in pre- and post  -  trade prices, but also in fee structures and access.  In addition, MiFID II has a particularly significant impact in a number of key areas, including corporate. 60. governance, transaction reporting, pre- and post-trade transparency, technology synchronization, best execution and investor protection. MiFID II also introduces a new regulated execution venue category known as the Organized Trading Facility (\"OTF\") (in addition to the venue category of Multilateral Trading Facility (\"MTF\") for European electronic trading), that will capture much of the voice and hybrid oriented trading in the EU.  Certain of our existing EU derivatives and fixed income execution business will in the future take place on OTFs.  Rules on public and non-discriminatory pricing structures of venues, and the related uncertainty of retaining traditional forms of revenue under the new regime, are expected to be a focus of our European regulated entities.  Authorization has been obtained from the FCA to operate an OTF at BGC Brokers L.P., GFI Brokers Limited, GFI Securities Limited and Sunrise Brokers LLP, and to operate an MTF at GFI Brokers Limited and GFI Securities Limited.  Authorization from the French autorité des marchés financiers (\"AMF\") has also been obtained to operate an OTF at Aurel BGC.  The uncertainties resulting from the possibility of additional legislation and/or regulation could materially adversely impact our businesses. Failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in fines, penalties, restrictions or limitations on business activity, suspension or expulsion from the industry, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us.. Similarly, while the recently adopted Volcker Rule will not apply directly to us, once effective, the Volcker Rule may have a material impact on many of the banking and other institutions with which we do business or compete. There may be a continued uncertainty regarding the application of the Volcker Rule, its impact on various affected businesses, how those businesses will respond to it, and the effect that it will have on the markets in which we do business.. Other regulatory initiatives include Basel III (or the Third Basel Accord), a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market liquidity risk scheduled to be introduced by bank regulators in most, if not all, of the world's major economies by 2019. Basel III is designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and introduces new regulatory requirements on bank liquidity and bank leverage. The adoption of these proposed rules could restrict the ability of our large bank and broker-dealer customers to operate proprietary trading businesses and to maintain current market exposures under the present structure of their balance sheets, and will cause these entities to need to raise additional capital in order to stay active in our marketplaces. As a result, their businesses, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be materially adversely affected, which might cause them to do less business. Such potential impact could materially adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our Financial Services segment.. Further, the authorities of certain EU countries may from time to time institute changes to tax law that, if applicable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, the U.S. has proposed a series of changes to U.S. tax law, some of which could apply to us. It is not possible to predict if any of these new provisions will be enacted or, if they are, what form they may take. It is possible that one or more of such provisions could negatively impact our costs and our effective tax rate, which would affect our after-tax earnings. If any of such changes to tax law were implemented and/or deemed to apply to us, they could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, including on our ability to attract, compensate and retain executives and brokers.. Republican Party control of both the U.S. Presidency and Congress could result in changes in legislation, regulations and priorities, including a freeze and review of pending regulations and possible revisions or relaxation of other regulations or initiatives. While we continue to have a compliance framework in place to comply with both existing and proposed rules and regulations, it is possible that the existing regulatory framework may be amended, which amendments could have a positive or negative impact on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We believe that uncertainty and potential delays around the final form of such new laws and regulations might take may negatively impact trading volumes in certain markets in which we transact. Increased capital requirements may also diminish transaction velocity. We believe that it remains premature to know conclusively the specific aspects of the U.S. and EU proposals which may directly impact our businesses as some proposals have not yet been finalized and others which have been proposed remain subject to supervisory debate. Additionally, unintended consequences of the laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. We are unable to predict how any of these new laws, rules, regulations and proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to laws, rules or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Extensive regulation of our businesses restricts and limits our operations and activities and results in ongoing exposure to potential significant costs and penalties, including fines, sanctions, enhanced oversight, increased financial and capital requirements, and additional restrictions or limitations on our ability to conduct or grow our businesses.. The financial services industry, including our businesses, is subject to extensive regulation, which is very costly. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect the holders of our stock, notes or other securities. These regulations will. 61. often serve to restrict or limit our operations and activities, including through capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements.. Our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, increased financial and capital requirements, restrictions or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA and the NFA, along with statutory bodies such as the SEC, the CFTC, and the FCA, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations.. Firms in the financial services industry, including us, have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, the NFA, state securities commissions and state attorneys general in the U.S., and the FCA in the U.K. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. This trend toward a heightened regulatory and enforcement environment can be expected to continue for the foreseeable future, and this environment may create uncertainty. From time to time, we have been and are subject to periodic examinations, inspections and investigations, including periodic risk assessment and related reviews of our U.K. group. As a result of such reviews, we may be required to include or enhance certain regulatory structures and frameworks in our operating procedures, systems and controls. We are also required to obtain approval from the FCA to acquire control of U.K. regulated firms and from other international regulators to acquire regulated entities in their jurisdictions.. Increasingly, the FCA has developed a practice of requiring senior officers of regulated firms to provide individual attestations or undertakings as to the status of the firm's control environment, compliance with specific rules and regulations, or the completion of required tasks. Officers of BGC Brokers L.P. and GFI Brokers Limited have given such attestations or undertakings in the past and may do so again in the future. Similarly, the FCA can seek a voluntary requirement notice, which is a voluntary undertaking on behalf of a firm that is made publicly available on the FCA's website. These activities have resulted, and may in the future result, in significant costs and remediation expenses, and possible disciplinary actions by the SEC, the CFTC, the FCA, self-regulatory organizations and state securities administrators and have impacted, and may impact in the future, our acquisitions of regulated businesses or entry into new business lines.. The brokerage and financial services industries in general face potential regulatory, litigation and/or criminal risks that may result in damages or fines or other penalties as well as costs, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our products and services are not regarded as satisfactory, our employees do not adhere to all applicable legal and professional standards, or for other reasons, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Many aspects of our current businesses involve substantial risks of liability. The expansion of our businesses, including into new areas, imposes additional risks of liability.. In the normal course of business, we have been a party to investigations, administrative proceedings, lawsuits, arbitrations and other actions involving primarily claims for damages. In certain circumstances, we could also face potential criminal investigations, enforcement actions or liability, including fines or other penalties. Examinations, inspections, regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony may cause us to incur significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and other professional advisors and costs associated with document production and remediation efforts. Such regulatory, legal or other actions may also be directed at certain executives or employees who may be critical to our businesses or to particular brokerage desks. The risks associated with such matters often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.. A settlement of, or judgment related to, any such matters could result in regulatory, civil or criminal liability, fines, penalties, restrictions or limitations on our operations and activities and other sanctions and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Any such action could also cause us significant reputational harm, which, in turn, could seriously harm us. In addition, regardless of the outcome of such matters, we may incur significant legal and other costs, including substantial management time, dealing with such matters, even if we are not a party to the litigation or a target of the inquiry.. In our Financial Services segment, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our customers and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain customers. We are subject to the risk of failure of our employees to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations or to be adequately supervised by their managers, and to the extent that such individuals do not meet these requirements, we may be subject to the risk of fines or other penalties as well as reputational risk. As a result, if our customers are not satisfied with our products or services, or our employees do not adhere to all applicable legal. 62. and professional standards, such matters may be more damaging to our Financial Services businesses than to other types of businesses. Significant regulatory action or substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, or cause significant reputational damage to us, which could seriously harm us.. Financial Services Competition. Because competition for the services of brokers is intense, it could affect our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled brokers or other professional services personnel, in turn adversely impacting our revenues, resulting in a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our ability to provide high-quality brokerage and other professional services and maintain long-term relationships with our customers depends, in large part, upon our brokers and other professionals in both of our segments. As a result, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel.. In recent years, we have significantly grown the number of brokers in our businesses through new hires and acquisitions of existing businesses, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Competition for the services of brokers is intense, especially for brokers with experience in the specialized businesses in which we participate or we may seek to enter. If we are unable to hire or retain highly qualified brokers, including retaining those employed by businesses we acquire in the future, we may not be able to enter new brokerage markets or develop new products or services. If we lose one or more of our brokers in a particular market in which we participate, our revenues may decrease and we may lose market share.. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified brokers could result in substantial additional costs. We have been and are currently a party to, or otherwise involved in, several lawsuits and arbitrations involving competitor claims in connection with employee hires and/or departures. We may also pursue our rights through litigation when competitors hire our employees who are under contract with us. We believe such proceedings are common in the financial services industry due to its highly competitive nature. An adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Regardless of the outcome of these claims, we generally incur significant costs and substantial management time in dealing with them.. If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, or if we incur increased costs or restrictions associated with attracting and retaining personnel (such as lawsuits, arbitrations, sign-on or guaranteed bonuses or forgivable loans), our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We face strong competition from brokerages, broker-dealers, financial services firms, and exchanges, many of which have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have, which could lead to pricing pressures that could adversely impact our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and is expected to remain so. In our Financial Services segment, we primarily compete with three major, diversified inter-dealer brokers and financial intermediaries. These include NEX Group plc (\"NEX\") (formerly known as ICAP plc),TP ICAP plc (\"TP ICAP\") (formerly known as Tullett Prebon plc) and Compagnie Financiere Tradition (which is majority owned by Viel & Cie) (\"Tradition\"), all of which are currently publicly traded companies. Other inter-dealer broker and financial intermediary competitors include a number of smaller, privately-held firms that tend to specialize in specific products and services or geographic areas.. We also compete with companies that provide alternative products and services, such as contracts traded on futures exchanges, and trading processes, such as the direct dealer-to-dealer market for government securities and stock exchange markets for corporate equities, debt and other securities. We increasingly compete, directly or indirectly, with exchanges for the execution of trades in certain products, mainly in derivatives such as futures, swaps, options and options on futures. Certain exchanges have made and will likely continue to make attempts to move certain OTC-traded products to exchange-based execution, or to create listed derivatives products that mimic the qualities of similar OTC-traded products. We also compete with consortia, such as those operated by Tradeweb, which are created or funded from time to time by banks, broker-dealers and other companies involved in financial services, such as Thomson Reuters Corporation to compete in various markets with exchanges and inter-dealer brokers. We may compete in OTC-traded products with platforms such as those owned by MarketAxess Holdings Inc., in fixed income products or various OTC FX platforms owned by exchanges such as BATS and Deutsche Börse. In addition, financial data and information firms such as Thomson Reuters Corporation and Bloomberg L.P. operate trading platforms for both OTC and listed products, and may attempt to compete with us for trade execution in the future.. 63. Some of our competitors have greater market presence, marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have and, as a result, our competitors may be able to:. •  develop and expand their network infrastructures and product and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly than we can;. •  adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements;. •  identify and consummate acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively than we can;. •  hire our brokers and other key employees;. •  devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services;. •  more effectively leverage existing relationships with customers and strategic partners or exploit more recognized brand names to market and sell their products and services;. •  provide a lower cost structure and lower commissions and fees;. •  provide access to trading in products or a range of products that at any particular time we do not offer; and. •  develop services that are preferred by our customers.. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and our product and service lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of our existing product and service lines. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and as a result our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Competition for financial brokerage transactions also has resulted in substantial commission discounting by brokers that compete with us for business. Further discounting could adversely impact our revenues and margins and as a result could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our operations also include the sale of pricing and transactional data and information produced by our brokerage operations to securities information processors and/or vendors. There is a high degree of competition in pricing and transaction reporting products and services, and such businesses may become more competitive in the future. Competitors and customers of our financial brokerage businesses have together and individually offered market data and information products and services in competition with those offered and expected to be offered by us.. International Operations Risks. We are generally subject to various risks inherent in doing business in the international financial markets, in addition to those unique to the regulated brokerage industry, and any failure to identify and manage those risks could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We currently provide products and services to customers in many foreign countries, and we may seek to further expand our operations into additional jurisdictions. On a consolidated basis, revenues from foreign countries were over $1.3 billion, or more than two-thirds of total revenues in our Financial Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2017. In many countries, the laws and rules and regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local regulations in every jurisdiction. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws and rules and regulations in a particular foreign jurisdiction could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our businesses could be adversely affected.. There are also certain additional political, economic, legal, operational and other risks inherent in doing business in international financial markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry. These risks include:. •  less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems;. •  additional or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, capital requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers;. •  the impact of the laws, rules and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business, including initiatives such as Brexit;. •  possible nationalization, expropriation and regulatory, political and price controls;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. •  capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions;. 64. •  any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems, which could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. •  reduced protections for intellectual property rights;. •  adverse labor and employment laws, including those related to compensation, tax, health insurance and benefits, and social security;. •  outbreak of hostilities; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences arising from compliance with foreign laws, rules and regulations to which our international businesses are subject and the repatriation of overseas earnings.. Credit Risk. Credit rating downgrades or defaults by us, Cantor or another large financial institution could adversely affect us or financial markets generally.. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. For example, we rely on Cantor as our clearing agent under the Clearing Agreement for certain securities transactions, primarily U.S. government securities, while we self-clear certain other products. A default by one of our customers could lead to liquidity concerns in our business and, to the extent that Cantor or another entity that clears for us has difficulty meeting capital requirements or otherwise meeting its obligations, we may need to provide our own liquidity.. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. Similarly, our vendors, including insurance companies and other providers, are subject to normal business risks as well as risks related to U.S. and international economic and market conditions. Failure of any of these vendor institutions could also materially adversely affect us.. The credit ratings and associated outlooks of firms in the financial services industries, including us, may be critical to their reputation and operational and financial success. A firm's credit ratings and associated outlooks are influenced by a number of factors, including but not limited to: operating environment, earnings and profitability trends, the prudence of funding and liquidity management practices, balance sheet size/composition and resulting leverage, cash flow coverage of interest, composition and size of the capital base, available liquidity, outstanding borrowing levels, the firm's competitive position in the industry and its relationship with other firms. A credit rating and/or the associated outlook can be revised upward or downward at any time by a rating agency if such rating agency decides that circumstances of that firm or related firms warrant such a change. Any reduction in credit ratings and/or the associated outlook could adversely affect the availability of debt financing on acceptable terms, as well as the cost and other terms upon which any such financing can be obtained. In addition, credit ratings and associated outlooks may be important to customers or counterparties in certain markets and in certain transactions. Additional collateral may be required in the event of a credit ratings or outlook downgrade.. Our financial services activities are subject to credit and performance risks, which could result in us incurring significant losses that could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our activities are subject to credit and performance risks. For example, our customers may not deliver securities to one of our operating subsidiaries which has sold those securities to another customer. If the securities due to be delivered have increased in value, there is a risk that we may have to expend our own funds in connection with the purchase of other securities to consummate the transaction. While we will take steps to ensure that our customers and counterparties have high credit standings and that financing transactions are adequately collateralized, the large dollar amounts that may be involved in our broker-dealer and financing transactions could subject us to significant losses if, as a result of customer or counterparty failures to meet commitments, we were to incur significant costs in liquidating or covering our positions in the open market.. We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage credit risk, in both agency and principal transactions, through reporting and control procedures and by monitoring credit standards applicable to our customers and counterparties. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective, particularly against fraud, unauthorized trading and similar incidents. Some of these risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, counterparties or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are, or may be, exposed, our businesses, financial condition,. 65. results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies do not provide coverage for these risks.. Transactions executed on a matched principal basis where the instrument has the same or similar characteristics to the counterparty may expose us to correlation risk. In this case, the counterparty's inability to meet its obligations will also result in the value of the instrument declining. For example, if we were to enter into a transaction to sell to a customer a bond or structured note where the issuer or credit support provider was such customer's affiliate, the value of the instrument would decline in value in tandem with the default. This correlation has the effect of magnifying the credit loss.. We are subject to financing risk because, if a transaction does not settle on a timely basis, the resulting unmatched position may need to be financed, either directly by us or through one of the clearing organizations, at our expense. These charges may be recoverable from the failing counterparty, but sometimes they are not. In addition, in instances where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged or widespread due to rapid or widespread declines in liquidity for an instrument, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us, which, depending on their size and duration, could limit our business flexibility or even force the curtailment of those portions of our businesses requiring higher levels of capital. Credit or settlement losses of this nature could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Declines in the financial markets have also led to the exposure of several cases of financial fraud. If we were to have trading activity on an agency or principal basis with an entity engaged in defrauding investors or counterparties, we could bear the risk that the counterparty would not have the financial resources to meet their obligations, resulting in a credit loss. Similarly, we may engage in financial transactions with third parties that have been victims of financial fraud and, therefore, may not have the financial resources to meet their obligations to us.. In agency transactions, we charge a commission for connecting buyers and sellers and assisting in the negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction. After all material terms of a transaction are agreed upon, we identify the buyer and seller to each other and leave them to settle the trade directly. We are exposed to credit risk for commissions, as we bill customers for our agency brokerage services. Our customers may default on their obligations to us due to disputes, bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Any losses arising from such defaults could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In certain financial products, we act as a \"name passing\" broker, where the parties to the trade will settle directly against each other when their names are given up. In these markets, we may from time to time provide quotes. These quotes are intended to provide market values where we believe a customer can execute a transaction in a particular financial product. These quotes reflect our good faith view as to a reasonable bid/offer for that particular product. Prices may be received directly from a customer, or we may provide prices where we are confident the customers will be able to execute a trade, but do not have a customer currently supporting the price. In these cases the price will be based on our professional judgment. We may post or provide bids and offers in an effort (i) to present suitable markets where none would otherwise exist, or (ii) to exhibit spreads that are more reflective of contemporaneous market opinion or activity. In such cases, our efforts are intended to facilitate liquidity for our customers and to draw market participants to participate in a transaction. Although we will exercise strenuous efforts to execute at any given price, we cannot guarantee an execution at a certain price level.. In emerging market countries, we primarily conduct our Financial Services businesses on an agency and matched principal basis, where the risk of counterparty default, inconvertibility events and sovereign default is greater than in more developed countries.. We enter into transactions in cash and derivative instruments primarily on an agency and matched principal basis with counterparties domiciled in countries in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia. Transactions with these counterparties are generally in instruments or contracts of sovereign or corporate issuers located in the same country as the counterparty. This exposes us to a higher degree of sovereign or convertibility risk than in more developed countries.. In addition, these risks may entail correlated risks. A correlated risk arises when the counterparty's inability to meet its obligations also corresponds to a decline in the value of the instrument traded. In the case of a sovereign convertibility event or outright default, the counterparty to the trade may be unable to pay or transfer payment of an instrument purchased out of the country when the value of the instrument has declined due to the default or convertibility event.. The global financial crisis of recent years has heightened the risk of sovereign or convertibility events in emerging markets similar to the events that occurred in previous financial downturns. Our risk management function monitors the creditworthiness of emerging countries and counterparties on an ongoing basis and, when the risk of inconvertibility or sovereign default is deemed to be too great, correlated transactions or all transactions may be restricted or suspended. However, there can be no assurance that these procedures will be effective in controlling these risks.. 66. Concentration and Market Risk. Our Financial Services segment has its rates business as its largest product category, and we could be significantly affected by any downturn in the rates product market.. We offer our Financial Services in five broad product categories: rates, credit, foreign exchange, energy and commodities and equity and other asset classes. Our Financial Services brokerage revenues are strongest in our rates products, which accounted for approximately 30.9% of our total Financial Services brokerage revenues on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2017. While we focus on expanding and have successfully diversified our product offerings, we may currently be exposed to any adverse change or condition affecting the rates product market. Accordingly, the concentration of our businesses on rates products subjects our results to a greater market risk than if we had more diversified product offerings.. Due to our current customer concentration, a loss of one or more of our significant customers could materially harm our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, on a consolidated basis, our top ten Financial Services customers collectively, accounted for approximately 18.1% of our total revenues. We have limited long-term contracts with certain of these customers. If we were to lose one or more of these significant customers for any reason, including as a result of further consolidation and concentration in the financial services industry, and not be compensated for such loss by doing additional business with other customers or by adding new customers, our revenues would decline significantly and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would materially suffer.. Our Financial Services revenues and profitability could be reduced or otherwise materially adversely affected by pricing plans relating to commissions and fees on our trading platform.. We negotiate from time to time with certain customers (including many of our largest customers) to enter into customized volume discount pricing plans. While the pricing plans are designed to encourage customers to be more active on our electronic trading platform, they reduce the amount of commissions and fees payable to us by certain of our most active customers for certain products, which could reduce our revenues and constrain our profitability. From time to time, these pricing plans come up for renewal. Failure of a number of our larger customers to enter into renewed agreements, or agreements on terms as favorable as existing agreements, could have a material adverse effect on volumes on our electronic trading platform, the commissions payable to us, our revenues and our profitability.. Reduced spreads in securities pricing, levels of trading activity and trading through market makers and/or specialists could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Computer-generated buy/sell programs and other technological advances and regulatory changes in the marketplace may continue to tighten securities spreads. In addition, new and enhanced alternative trading systems, such as electronic communications networks, have emerged as alternatives for individual and institutional investors, as well as broker-dealers. As such systems do not direct trades through market makers, their use could result in reduced revenues for us or for our customers. In addition, reduced trading levels could lead to lower revenues which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We have market risk exposure from unmatched principal transactions entered into by some of our desks, as well as holdings of marketable equity securities, which could result in losses and have a material effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects for any particular reporting period. In addition, financial fraud or unauthorized trading activity could also materially impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. On a limited basis, our desks enter into unmatched principal transactions in the ordinary course of business to facilitate transactions, add liquidity, improve customer satisfaction, increase revenue opportunities and attract additional order flow or in certain instances as the result of an error and, in a limited number of instances and subject to risk management limits, for the purpose of proprietary trading. As a result, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched principal transactions.. Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices or other factors will result in losses for a specified position. In our Financial Services business, we may allow certain of our desks to enter into unmatched principal transactions in the ordinary course of business and hold long and short inventory positions. These transactions are primarily for the purpose of managing proprietary positions, facilitating clients' execution needs, adding liquidity to a market or attracting additional order flow. As a result, we may have market risk exposure on these transactions. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall position, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered and the amount of time the position is held before we dispose of the position. Although we have limited ability to track our exposure to market risk and unmatched positions on an intra-day basis,. 67. we attempt to mitigate market risk on these positions by strict risk limits, extremely limited holding periods and hedging our exposure. These positions are intended to be held short term to facilitate customer transactions. However, due to a number of factors, including the nature of the position and access to the market on which it trades, we may not be able to unwind the position and we may be forced to hold the position for a longer period than anticipated. All positions held longer than intra-day are marked to market.. Certain categories of trades settle for clearing purposes with CF&Co, one of our affiliates. CF&Co is a member of FINRA and the FICC, a subsidiary of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation. In addition, certain affiliated entities are subject to regulation by the CFTC, including CF&Co and BGC Financial.We, CF&Co, BGC Financial and other affiliates act in a matched principal or principal capacity in markets by posting and/or acting upon quotes for our account. Such activity is intended, among other things, to assist us, CF&Co and other affiliates in managing proprietary positions (including, but not limited to, those established as a result of combination trades and errors), facilitating transactions, framing markets, adding liquidity, increasing commissions and attracting order flow. Similarly, when framing a market in a \"name passing\" marketplace, we and our affiliates may post quotations that we believe reflect contemporaneous and/or anticipated potential market interest in an effort to facilitate liquidity for market participants on our respective platforms. We and our affiliates use commercially reasonable efforts to find a counterparty for any resulting transactions, at the customary minimum size level for that market.. From a risk management perspective, we monitor risk on an end-of-day basis, and desk managers generally monitor such exposure on a continuous basis. Any unmatched positions are intended to be disposed of in the short term. However, due to a number of factors, including the nature of the position and access to the markets on which we trade, we may not be able to match the position or effectively hedge its exposure and often may be forced to hold a position overnight that has not been hedged. To the extent these unmatched positions are not disposed of intra-day, we mark these positions to market. Adverse movements in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a loss. In the event of any unauthorized trading activity or financial fraud that is not detected by management, it is possible that these unmatched positions could be outstanding for a long period. At the time of any sales and settlements of these positions, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair values. In addition, our estimates or determinations of the values of our various positions, assets or businesses are subject to the accuracy of our assumptions and the valuation models or multiples used. Any principal losses and gains resulting from these positions could on occasion have disproportionate effects, negative or positive, on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for any particular reporting period.. In addition, in recent years we have had considerable holdings of marketable securities received by us as consideration for the sale of certain businesses. These holdings include the shares of common stock of NASDAQ, Inc. that we received in exchange for a portion of our electronic benchmark Treasury platform, and the shares of common stock of ICE that we received in exchange for Trayport. We may seek to manage the market risk exposure inherent in such holdings by minimizing the effect of price changes on a portion of such holdings through the use of derivative contracts. There can, however, be no assurance that our hedging activities will be adequate to protect us against price risks associated with these holdings, or that the costs of such hedging activities will not be significant. Further, any such hedging activities and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including unpredicted price movements, counterparty defaults or other risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We have equity investments or profit sharing interests in entities whose primary business is proprietary trading. These investments could expose us to losses that could adversely affect our net income and the value of our assets.. We have equity investments or profit sharing interests in entities whose primary business is proprietary trading. The accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership or profit share and whether we have any influence or control over the relevant entity. Under certain accounting standards, any losses experienced by these entities on their investment activities could adversely impact our net income and the value of our assets. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we could lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits from trading.. As a result of our acquisition of GFI, we became subject to various operational, financial, control and compliance risks of GFI and any expected revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other benefits and synergies expected to occur as a result of the acquisition may not occur in the currently contemplated timeframe, or at all.. As a result of our acquisition of GFI, we became exposed to various operational, financial, control and compliance risks of GFI that are not publicly disclosed. As a result, we are exposed to unknown risks and liabilities in connection with GFI and its acquisition. In addition, future earnings of our combined businesses could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the impact of competition from other marketplace participants; economic conditions, including changes in trading volumes, inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, or the availability of capital; our ability to comply with all covenants in our. 68. credit facilities; and the risks and uncertainties with respect to our businesses as described in our reports and documents filed with the SEC. Further, the anticipated revenue opportunities, cost savings, and other benefits and synergies from the acquisition of GFI may not be fully realized, if at all, or may take longer to realize than currently contemplated. Any such factors or others could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similar factors could have an impact on our businesses in connection with other acquisitions from time to time, including to the extent that we complete acquisitions in new business lines or verticals.. Other General Financial Services Segment Risks. Our Financial Services operations are global and exchange rate fluctuations and international market events could materially adversely impact our financial results.. Because our Financial Services operations are global, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. Changes in foreign currency rates create volatility in the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues and expenses, in particular with regard to British Pounds and Euros. In addition, changes in the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated net assets are recorded as part of our results of operations and fluctuate with changes in foreign currency rates. We monitor our net exposure in foreign currencies and markets on a daily basis and hedge our exposure as deemed appropriate with highly rated major financial institutions. However, potential movements in the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which we earn revenues could materially adversely affect our financial results.. Furthermore, our revenues derived from non-U.S. operations are subject to risk of loss from social or political instability, changes in government policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments in such non-U.S. jurisdictions. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. The impact of these fluctuations on our results could be magnified because generally non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets.. Employee misconduct, fraud, miscommunication or error could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain customers and subjecting us to significant financial losses, legal liability, regulatory sanctions and penalties and reputational harm; moreover, misconduct is difficult to detect and deter, and error is difficult to prevent.. Employee misconduct, fraud or error could subject us to financial losses, legal liability, and regulatory sanctions and penalties and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect us. Misconduct or fraud by employees could include engaging in improper or unauthorized transactions or activities, failing to properly supervise other employees or improperly using confidential information.. Employee errors and miscommunication, including mistakes in executing, recording or processing transactions for customers, could cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose us to the risk of material losses even if the errors and miscommunication are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If our customers are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors and miscommunication are detected may be increased and our risk of material loss could be increased. The risk of employee error and miscommunication may be greater for products or services that are new or have non-standardized terms.. It is not always possible to deter and detect employee misconduct or fraud or prevent errors and miscommunications. While we have various supervisory systems and compliance processes and procedures in place, and seek to mitigate applicable risks, the precautions we take to deter and detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.. Although portions of our compensation structure are variable, significant parts of our cost structure are fixed, and if our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs in the amount that our revenues decline, our profitability could be materially adversely affected.. Although portions of our compensation structure are variable, significant parts of our cost structure are fixed. We base our overall cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for these products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. If we are unable to reduce our costs in the amount that our revenues decline, our profitability could be materially adversely affected.. 69. RISKS RELATED TO OUR REAL ESTATE SERVICES BUSINESS. General and Real Estate Services Market Conditions. Negative general economic conditions and commercial real estate market conditions (including perceptions of such conditions) can have a material adverse effect on our commercial Real Estate Services business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Commercial real estate markets are cyclical. They relate to the condition of the economy or, at least, to the perceptions of investors and users as to the relevant economic outlook. For example, companies may be hesitant to expand their office space or enter into long-term real estate commitments if they are concerned about the general economic environment. Companies that are under financial pressure for any reason, or are attempting to more aggressively manage their expenses, may reduce the size of their workforces, limit capital expenditures, including with respect to their office space, permit more of their staff to work from home and/or seek corresponding reductions in office space and related management or other services.. Negative general economic conditions and declines in the demand for commercial real estate brokerage and related management services in several markets or in significant markets could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects as a result of the following factors:. •  A general decline in acquisition and disposition activity can lead to a reduction in the commissions and fees we receive for arranging such transactions, as well as in commissions and fees we earn for arranging the financing for acquirers.. •  A general decline in the value and performance of commercial real estate and in rental rates can lead to a reduction in management and leasing commissions and fees. Additionally, such declines can lead to a reduction in commissions and fees that are based on the value of, or revenue produced by, the properties for which we provide services. This may include commissions and fees for appraisal and valuation, sales and leasing, and property and facilities management.. •  Cyclicality in the commercial real estate markets may lead to volatility in our earnings, and the commercial real estate business can be highly sensitive to market perception of the economy generally and our industry specifically. Real estate markets are also thought to \"lag\" the broader economy. This means that, even when underlying economic fundamentals improve in a given market, it may take additional time for these improvements to translate into strength in the commercial real estate markets.. •  In weaker economic environments, income-producing multifamily real estate may experience higher property vacancies, lower investor and tenant demand and reduced values. In such environments, we could experience lower transaction volumes and transaction sizes as well as fewer loan originations with lower relative principal amounts, as well as potential credit losses arising from risk-sharing arrangements with respect to certain GSE loans.. •  Periods of economic weakness or recession, significantly rising interest rates, fiscal uncertainty, declining employment levels, declining demand for commercial real estate, falling real estate values, disruption to the global capital or credit markets, political uncertainty or the public perception that any of these events may occur, may negatively affect the performance of some or all of our business lines.. •  Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets, or to access secured lending markets could in the future be adversely affected by conditions in the United States and international economy and markets, with the cost and availability of funding adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads and changes in interest rates.. While the U.S. commercial property market continues to display strength despite slowing growth of commercial property prices, according to Real Capital Analytics (which we refer to as \"RCA\") as of January 25, 2018, there can be no assurances that such strength will continue. Although Newmark Research estimates that the spreads between commercial property capitalization rates for all property types and 10-year U.S. Treasuries remain around their long-term average, as of December 31, 2017, interest rates rose across the U.S. benchmark yield curve in 2017, due in part to expectations of increased economic growth due to recently enacted tax cuts. We would expect these expectations to fuel continued demand for commercial real estate for as long as the U.S. economy continues to expand at a moderate pace but there can be no assurances that such sentiment will continue.. Business Concentration Risks. Our Real Estate Services business is geographically concentrated and could be significantly affected by any adverse change in the regions in which we operate.. Our current Real Estate Services business operations are primarily located in the United States. While we are expanding our business to new geographic areas, and operate internationally through our alliance with Knight Frank, we are still highly. 70. concentrated in the United States. Because we derived substantially all of our total revenues on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2017 from our operations in the United States, we are exposed to adverse competitive changes and economic downturns and changes in political conditions domestically. If we are unable to identify and successfully manage or mitigate these risks, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. The concentration of our Real Estate Services business with corporate clients can increase business risk, and our business can be adversely affected due to the loss of certain of these clients.. We value the expansion of business relationships with individual corporate clients because of the increased efficiency and economics that can result from developing recurring business from performing an increasingly broad range of services for the same client. Although our client portfolio is currently highly diversified - for the year ended December 31, 2017, our top 10 Real Estate Services clients, collectively, accounted for less than 7% of our total revenue on a consolidated basis, and our largest client accounted for less than 1% of our total revenue on a consolidated basis - as we grow our business, relationships with certain corporate clients may increase, and our client portfolio may become increasingly concentrated. For example, part of our strategy is to increase our GCS revenues which may lead to an increase in corporate clients and therefore greater concentration of revenues. Having increasingly large and concentrated clients also can lead to greater or more concentrated risks if, among other possibilities, any such client;. •  experiences its own financial problems;. •  becomes bankrupt or insolvent, which can lead to our failure to be paid for services we have previously provided or funds we have previously advanced;. •  decides to reduce its operations or its real estate facilities;. •  makes a change in its real estate strategy, such as no longer outsourcing its real estate operations;. •  decides to change its providers of real estate services; or. •  merges with another corporation or otherwise undergoes a change of control, which may result in new management taking over with a different real estate philosophy or in different relationships with other real estate providers.. Where we provide real estate services to firms in the financial services industry, including banks and investment banks, we are experiencing indirectly the increasing extent of the regulatory environment to which they are subject in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. This increases the cost of doing business with them, which we are not always able to pass on, as the result of the additional resources and processes we are required to provide as a critical supplier.. Regulatory/Legal. We may have liabilities in connection with our commercial Real Estate Services business, including appraisal and valuation, sales and leasing and property and facilities management activities.. As a licensed real estate broker and provider of commercial real estate services, we and our licensed sales professionals and independent contractors that work for us are subject to statutory due diligence, disclosure and standard-of-care obligations. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us or our sales professionals or independent contractors to litigation from parties who purchased, sold or leased properties that we brokered or managed.. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales and leasing transactions, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations. We could also become subject to claims made by clients for whom we provided appraisal and valuation services and/or third parties who perceive themselves as having been negatively affected by our appraisals and/or valuations. We also could be subject to audits and/or fines from various local real estate authorities if they determine that we are violating licensing laws by failing to follow certain laws, rules and regulations. While these liabilities have been insignificant in the past, we have no assurance that this will continue to be the case.. In our property and facilities management business, we hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide services for our managed properties. We may be subject to claims for defects, negligent performance of work or other similar actions or omissions by third parties we do not control. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property or facilities manager or project manager, even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a contractual matter, in which case we may be pressured to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship. While these liabilities have been insignificant in the past, we have no assurance that this will continue to be the case.. Because we employ large numbers of building staff in facilities that we manage, we face risk in potential claims relating to employment injuries, termination and other employment matters. While these risks are generally passed back to the building owner, we have no assurance it will continue to be the case.. 71. In connection with a limited number of our facilities management agreements, we have guaranteed that the client will achieve certain savings objectives. In the event that these objectives are not met, we are obligated to pay the shortfall amount to the client. In most instances, the obligation to pay such amount is limited to the amount of fees (or the amount of a subset of the fees) earned by us under the contract, but no assurance can be given that we will be able to mitigate against these payments or that the payments, particularly if aggregated with those required under other agreements, would not have a material adverse effect on our ongoing arrangements with particular clients or our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The percentage of our Real Estate Services revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 subject to such obligations under our current facilities management agreements is less than 1%.  While these liabilities have been immaterial to date, we have no assurance that this will continue to be the case.. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management disputes or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, particularly to the extent we may be liable on our contracts, or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the insurance coverage procured and maintained by us. Some of these litigation risks may be mitigated by any commercial insurance we maintain in amounts we believe are appropriate. However, in the event of a substantial loss or certain types of claims, our insurance coverage and/or self-insurance reserve levels might not be sufficient to pay the full damages. Additionally, in the event of grossly negligent or intentionally wrongful conduct, insurance policies that we may have may not cover us at all. Further, the value of otherwise valid claims we hold under insurance policies could become uncollectible in the event of the covering insurance company's insolvency, although we seek to limit this risk by placing our commercial insurance only with highly rated companies. Any of these events could materially negatively impact our businesess, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. While these liabilities have been insignificant in the past, we have no assurance that this will continue to be the case.. If we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to commercial real estate brokerage, valuation and appraisal and mortgage transactions and our other Real Estate Services business lines, then we may incur significant financial penalties.. Due to the broad geographic scope of our operations throughout North America and the commercial real estate services we perform, we are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations specific to our services. For example, the brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions and other related activities require us to maintain brokerage licenses in each state in which we conduct activities for which a real estate license is required. We also maintain certain state licenses in connection with our lending, servicing and brokerage of commercial and multifamily mortgage loans. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct brokerage activities without a license or violate any of the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our licenses, then we may be subject to audits, required to pay fines (including treble damages in certain states) or be prevented from collecting commissions owed, be compelled to return commissions received or have our licenses suspended or revoked.. In addition, because the size and scope of commercial real estate transactions have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous state licensing and regulatory regimes and the possible loss resulting from non-compliance have increased. Furthermore, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business lines also may change in ways that increase the costs of compliance. The failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations could result in significant financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The loss of relationships with the GSEs and HUD would, and changes in such relationships could, adversely affect our ability to originate commercial real estate loans through such programs. Compliance with the minimum collateral and risk-sharing requirements of such programs, as well as applicable state and local licensing agencies, could reduce our liquidity.. Currently, through Berkeley Point, we originate a significant percentage of our loans for sale through the GSEs and HUD programs. Berkeley Point is approved as a Fannie Mae DUS lender, a Freddie Mac Program Plus seller/servicer in 12 states and the District of Columbia, a Freddie Mac Targeted Affordable Housing Seller, a HUD MAP lender nationwide, and a Ginnie Mae issuer. Our status as an approved lender affords us a number of advantages, which may be terminated by the applicable GSE or HUD at any time. Although we intend to take all actions to remain in compliance with the requirements of these programs, as well as applicable state and local licensing agencies, the loss of such status would, or changes in our relationships with the GSEs and HUD could, prevent us from being able to originate commercial real estate loans for sale through the particular GSE or HUD, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. It could also result in a loss of similar approvals from the GSEs or HUD. As of December 31, 2017, we exceeded the most restrictive applicable net worth requirement of these programs by approximately $347.4 million. In addition, over the last 10 years, Berkeley Point has achieved better 60 day+ delinquency rates than the industry average.. 72. We are subject to risk of loss in connection with defaults on loans sold under the Fannie Mae DUS program that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. Under the Fannie Mae DUS program, we originate and service multifamily loans for Fannie Mae without having to obtain Fannie Mae's prior approval for certain loans, as long as the loans meet the underwriting guidelines set forth by Fannie Mae. In return for the delegated authority to make loans and the commitment to purchase loans by Fannie Mae, we must maintain minimum collateral and generally are required to share risk of loss on loans sold through Fannie Mae. With respect to most loans, we are generally required to absorb approximately one-third of any losses on the unpaid principal balance of a loan at the time of loss settlement. Some of the loans that we originate under the Fannie Mae DUS program are subject to reduced levels or no risk-sharing. However, we generally receive lower servicing fees with respect to such loans. Although our Berkeley Point business's average annual losses from such risk-sharing programs have been a minimal percentage of the aggregate principal amount of such loans to date, if loan defaults increase, actual risk-sharing obligation payments under the Fannie Mae DUS program could increase, and such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, a material failure to pay our share of losses under the Fannie Mae DUS program could result in the revocation of Berkeley Point's license from Fannie Mae and the exercise of various remedies available to Fannie Mae under the Fannie Mae DUS program.. A change to the conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related actions, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. federal government or the existence of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Each GSE has been created under a conservatorship established by its regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, since 2008. The conservatorship is a statutory process designed to preserve and conserve the GSEs' assets and property and put them in a sound and solvent condition. The conservatorships have no specified termination dates. There has been significant uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including how long they will continue to exist in their current forms. Changes in such forms could eliminate or substantially reduce the number of loans we originate with the GSEs. Policymakers and others have focused significant attention in recent years on how to reform the nation's housing finance system, including what role, if any, the GSEs should play. Such reforms could significantly limit the role of the GSEs in the nation's housing finance system. Any such reduction in the loans we originate with the GSEs could lead to a reduction in fees related to the loans we originate or service. These effects could cause our Berkeley Point business to realize significantly lower revenues from its loan originations and servicing fees, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Real Estate Services Competition. We operate in a highly competitive commercial real estate services industry with numerous competitors, some of which may have greater financial and operational resources than we do.. We compete to provide a variety of services within the commercial real estate industry. Each of these business disciplines is highly competitive on a local, regional, national and global level. We face competition not only from other national real estate service companies, but also from global real estate services companies, boutique real estate advisory firms, and consulting and appraisal firms. Depending on the product or service, we also face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, commercial banks, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than we are, some of our competitors are substantially larger than us on a local, regional, national or international basis and have similar service competencies to ours. Such competitors include CBRE Group, Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, Cushman & Wakefield, Savills Studley, Inc. and Colliers International. In addition, specialized firms like Walker & Dunlop, Inc., Berkadia Commercial Mortgage, LLC, HFF, Inc., Marcus & Millichap Inc. and Eastdil Secured, LLC compete with us in certain product offerings. Our industry has continued to consolidate, and there is an inherent risk that competitive firms may be more successful than we are at growing through merger and acquisition activity. See \"Item 1 - Business - Competition.\" In general, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with respect to any of our commercial real estate business lines or on an overall basis, to maintain current commission and fee levels or margins, or to maintain or increase our market share.. Additionally, competitive conditions, particularly in connection with increasingly large clients, may require us to compromise on certain contract terms with respect to the extent of risk transfer, acting as principal rather than agent in connection with supplier relationships, liability limitations and other terms and conditions. Where competitive pressures result in higher levels of potential liability under our contracts, the cost of operational errors and other activities for which we have indemnified our clients will be greater and may not be fully insured.. 73. Other General Real Estate Services Risks. If we experience difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or experience defaults by multiple clients, it could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We face challenges in our ability to efficiently and/or effectively collect accounts receivable. Any of our clients or other parties obligated to make payments to us may experience a downturn in their business that may weaken their results of operations and financial condition. As a result, a client or other party obligated to make payments to us may fail to make payments when due, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. A bankruptcy of a client or other party obligated to make payments to us would delay or preclude full collection of amounts owed to us. In addition, certain corporate services and property and facilities management agreements require that we advance payroll and other vendor costs on behalf of clients. If such a client or other party obligated to make payments to us were to file for bankruptcy, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for those costs or for the severance obligations we would incur. Any such failure to make payments when due or the bankruptcy or insolvency of a large number of our clients (e.g., during an economic downturn) could result in disruption to our Real Estate Services business and material losses to us. While historically we have not incurred material losses as a result of the difficulties described above, this may not always be the case.. We may not be able to replace partner offices when affiliation agreements are terminated, which may decrease our scope of services and geographic reach.. We have agreements in place to operate on a collaborative and cross-referral basis with certain offices in the United States and elsewhere in the Americas in return for contractual and referral fees paid to us and/or certain mutually beneficial co-branding and other business arrangements. These independently owned offices generally use some variation of Newmark in their names and marketing materials. These agreements are normally multi-year contracts, and generally provide for mutual referrals in their respective markets, generating additional contract and brokerage fees. Through these independently owned offices, our clients have access to additional brokers with local market research capabilities as well as other commercial real estate services in locations where we do not have a physical presence. From time to time our arrangement with these independent firms may be terminated pursuant to the terms of the individual affiliation agreements. The opening of a Company-owned office to replace an independent office requires us to invest capital, which in some cases could be material. There can be no assurance that, if we lose additional independently owned offices, we will be able to identify suitable replacement affiliates or fund the establishment or acquisition of an owned office. In addition, although we do not control the activities of these independently owned offices and are not responsible for their liabilities, we may face reputational risk if any of these independently owned offices are involved in or accused of illegal, unethical or similar behavior. Failure to maintain coverage in important geographic markets may negatively impact our operations, reputation and ability to attract and retain key employees and expand domestically and internationally and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Declines in or terminations of servicing engagements or breaches of servicing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We expect that loan servicing fees will continue to constitute a significant portion of our revenues from the Berkeley Point business for the foreseeable future. Nearly all of these fees are derived from loans that Berkeley Point originates and sells through the agencies' programs or places with institutional investors. A decline in the number or value of loans that we originate for these investors or terminations of our servicing engagements will decrease these fees. HUD has the right to terminate Berkeley Point's current servicing engagements for cause. In addition to termination for cause, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may terminate Berkeley Point's servicing engagements without cause by paying a termination fee. Institutional investors typically may terminate servicing engagements with Berkeley Point at any time with or without cause, without paying a termination fee. We are also subject to losses that may arise from servicing errors, such as a failure to maintain insurance, pay taxes, or provide notices. If we breach our servicing obligations to the agencies or institutional investors, including as a result of a failure to perform by any third parties to which we have contracted certain routine back-office aspects of loan servicing, the servicing engagements may be terminated. Significant declines or terminations of servicing engagements or breaches of such obligations, in the absence of replacement revenue sources, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Reductions in loan servicing fees as a result of defaults or prepayments by borrowers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. In addition to exposure to potential loss sharing, our Real Estate Services business's loan servicing business is also subject to potential reductions in loan servicing fees if the borrower defaults on a loan originated thereby, as the generation of loan servicing fees depends upon the continued receipt and processing of periodic installments of principal, interest and other payments such as amounts held in escrow to pay property taxes and other required expenses. The loss of such loan servicing fees would reduce the amount of cash actually generated from loan servicing and from interest on amounts held in escrow. The expected loss of future loan servicing fees would also result in non-cash impairment charges to earnings. Such cash and non-cash charges could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 74. Real Estate LP may engage in a broad range of commercial real estate activities, and we will have limited influence over the selection or management of such activities.. In the BP Transaction, we acquired approximately 27% of the capital in Real Estate LP. Cantor controls the remaining 73% of its capital and controls the general partner of Real Estate LP, who will manage Real Estate LP. Real Estate LP collaborates with Cantor's significant existing real estate finance business, and Real Estate LP may conduct activities in any real estate-related business or asset-backed securities-related business or any extensions thereof and ancillary activities thereto. Accordingly, we will have limited to no influence on the selection or management of the activities conducted by Real Estate LP, each of which may have different risks and uncertainty associated with it and that are each beyond our control.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE AND PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE. Corporate Structure. Because our voting control is concentrated among the holders of our Class B common stock, the market price of our Class A common stock may be materially adversely affected by its disparate voting rights.. As of February 20, 2018, Cantor (including CFGM) beneficially owned all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 56.1% of our total voting power. In addition, Cantor has the right to exchange exchangeable partnership interests in BGC Holdings into additional shares of Class B common stock, and pursuant to an exchange agreement with us, Cantor has the right to exchange shares of our Class A common stock for additional shares of Class B common stock.. As long as Cantor beneficially owns a majority of our total voting power, it will have the ability, without the consent of the public holders of our Class A common stock, to elect all of the members of our board of directors and to control our management and affairs. In addition, it will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of us. In certain circumstances, such as when transferred to an entity controlled by Cantor or Mr. Lutnick, the shares of Class B common stock issued to Cantor may be transferred without conversion to Class A common stock.. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have substantially identical rights, except that holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders in general. The Class B common stock is controlled by Cantor and is not subject to conversion or termination by our board of directors or any committee thereof, or any other stockholder or third party. This differential in the voting rights of Class B common stock could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Delaware law may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a different effect on holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock.. Stockholders may not be able to challenge decisions that have an adverse effect upon holders of our Class A common stock compared to holders of our Class B common stock if our board of directors acts in a disinterested, informed manner with respect to these decisions, in good faith and in the belief that it is acting in the best interests of our stockholders.  Newmark has a similar dual class structure.  Delaware law generally provides that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders, regardless of class or series, and does not have separate or additional duties to different groups of stockholders, subject to applicable provisions set forth in a corporation's certificate of incorporation and general principles of corporate law and fiduciary duties.. Delaware law, our corporate organizational documents and other requirements may impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our Class A stockholders. Some provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated bylaws could make the following more difficult:. •  acquisition of us by means of a tender offer;. •  acquisition of us by means of a proxy contest or otherwise; or. •  removal of our incumbent officers and directors.. These provisions, summarized below, may discourage coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids. These provisions may also encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to first negotiate with our board of directors. We believe that. 75. the benefits of increased protection give us the potential ability to negotiate with the initiator of an unfriendly or unsolicited proposal to acquire or restructure us and outweigh the disadvantages of discouraging those proposals because negotiation of them could result in an improvement of their terms.. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of our board of directors, or in the event the Chairman of our board of directors is unavailable, by the Chief Executive Officer or by the holders of a majority of the voting power of our Class B common stock, which is held by Cantor and CFGM. In addition, our certificate of incorporation permits us to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock.. Our amended and restated bylaws require advance written notice prior to a meeting of our stockholders of a proposal or director nomination which a stockholder desires to present at such a meeting, which generally must be received by our Secretary not later than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of our proxy statement for the preceding year's annual meeting. In the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the later of the 120th day prior to the date of such proxy statement or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by us. Our bylaws provide that all amendments to our bylaws must be approved by either the holders of a majority of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote or by a majority of our board of directors.. We are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless the \"business combination\" or the transaction in which the person became an \"interested stockholder\" is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a \"business combination\" includes a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the \"interested stockholder.\" An \"interested stockholder\" is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, or was the owner of 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock at any time within the prior three years, other than \"interested stockholders\" prior to the time our Class A common stock was traded on NASDAQ. The existence of this provision would be expected to have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of Class A common stock.. In addition, our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions which could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control.. Further, our Seventh Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan contains provisions pursuant to which grants that are unexercisable or unvested may automatically become exercisable or vested as of the date immediately prior to certain change of control events. Additionally, change in control and employment agreements between us and our named executive officers also provide for certain grants, payments, and grants of exchangeability in the event of certain change of control events.. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by Cantor, including shares of our Class B common stock, and rights to acquire additional such shares, and the provisions of the indentures for our outstanding notes discussed above, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our Class A common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of the Class A common stock.. We are a parent holding company, and accordingly we are dependent upon distributions from BGC U.S. and BGC Global and dividends from Newmark to pay dividends, taxes and indebtedness and other expenses and to make repurchases.. We are a parent holding company with no direct operations and will be able to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses, and to make repurchases of shares our Class A common stock and purchases of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in us or in our subsidiaries, including Newmark and its subsidiaries, only from our available cash on hand and funds received from distributions or loans from BGC U.S. and BGC Global and dividends from Newmark. As discussed above, regulatory, tax restrictions or elections, and other legal or contractual restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely from our subsidiaries. In addition, any unanticipated accounting, tax or other charges against net income could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and to make repurchases.. BGC U.S. and BGC Global intend to distribute to their limited partners, including us, on a pro rata and quarterly basis, cash that is not required to meet BGC U.S.'s and BGC Global's anticipated business and regulatory needs. As a result, BGC U.S.'s and BGC Global's ability, and in turn our ability, to pay dividends, taxes and indebtedness and other expenses and to make repurchases will depend upon the continuing profitability and strategic and operating needs of our businesses, including various capital adequacy and clearing capital requirements promulgated by federal, self-regulatory, and other authorities to which our subsidiaries are subject. Similarly, our subsidiary Newmark is a holding company with no direct operations, and will be able to pay. 76. dividends, taxes and other expenses, and to make repurchases of shares of its Class A common stock and purchases of Newmark Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in its subsidiaries, only from its available cash on hand and funds received from distributions, loans or other payments from Newmark OpCo.. Our board of directors has authorized a dividend policy which provides that we expect to pay a cash dividend to our common stockholders based on our \"post-tax adjusted earnings per fully diluted share.\"  Our board of directors declared a dividend of 18 cents per share for the fourth quarter of 2017 and has indicated that it expects to maintain such 18 cent quarterly dividend until the completion of the proposed distribution.  The balance of such adjusted earnings are expected to be available to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock or purchase BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in us or in subsidiaries, including Newmark and its subsidiaries, from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners and others. Similarly, Newmark intends to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. Newmark's ability to pay dividends is dependent upon its available cash on hand and funds received from distributions, loans or other payments from Newmark OpCo. Newmark OpCo intends to distribute to its limited partners, including Newmark, on a pro rata and quarterly basis, cash in an amount that will be determined by its general partner which is controlled by Newmark Holdings, which Newmark in turn controls. Newmark OpCo's ability, and in turn Newmark's ability, to make such distributions or dividends will depend upon the continuing profitability and strategic and operating needs of its business. Newmark may not pay the same dividend to its stockholders, including us, as the distribution paid by Newmark OpCo to its limited partners.. Our board of directors and our Audit Committee have authorized repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock and purchases of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in Newmark and our other subsidiaries as part of this policy, including those held by Cantor and/or its partners, our executive officers, other employees and partners. In February 2017, this authorization was increased back to $300 million. As of February 20, 2018, we had approximately $176.5 million remaining under this $300 million authorization and may continue to actively make such repurchases or purchases, or cease to make such repurchases or purchases, from time to time. In addition, from time to time, we may reinvest all or a portion of the distributions we receive from BGC U.S. and BGC Global and dividends we receive from Newmark in BGC's and Newmark's respective businesses, and Newmark may similarly invest in Newmark's business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that future dividends will be paid or that dividend amounts will be maintained at current or future levels.. If our dividend policy is materially different than the distribution policy of BGC Holdings, upon the exchange of any BGC Holdings limited partnership interests such BGC Holdings limited partners could receive a disproportionate interest in the aggregate distributions by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us.. To the extent BGC Holdings distributes to its limited partners a greater share of income received from BGC U.S. and BGC Global than we distribute to our stockholders, then as founding/working partners, limited partnership unit holders and/or Cantor exercise any exchange right to acquire our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, as applicable, exchanging partners may receive a disproportionate interest in the aggregate distributions by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us. The reason is that the exchanging partner could receive both (1) the benefit of the distribution that has not been distributed by us from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to BGC Holdings (in the form of a distribution by BGC Holdings to its limited partners) and (2) the benefit of the distribution from BGC U.S. and BGC Global to us (in the form of a subsequent cash dividend paid by us, a greater percentage indirect interest in BGC U.S. and BGC Global following a repurchase of Class A common stock by us or a greater value of assets following a purchase of assets by us with the cash that otherwise would be distributed to our stockholders). Consequently, if our dividend policy does not match the distribution policy of BGC Holdings, other holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of the date of an exchange could experience a reduction in their interest in the profits previously distributed by BGC U.S. and BGC Global that have not been distributed by us. Our current dividend policy could result in distributions to our common stockholders that are different from the distributions made by BGC Holdings to its unit holders.. The dual class structure of BGC Partners and Newmark common stock may adversely affect the trading market for such Class A common stock.. S&P Dow Jones and FTSE Russell have recently announced changes to their eligibility criteria for inclusion of shares of public companies on certain indices, including the S&P 500, namely, to exclude companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to such indices. In addition, several shareholder advisory firms have announced their opposition to the use of multiple class structures. As a result, the dual class structure of our common stock may prevent the inclusion of our Class A common stock in such indices and may cause shareholder advisory firms to publish negative commentary about our corporate governance practices or otherwise seek to cause us to change our capital structure. Any such exclusion from indices could result in a less active trading market for our Class A common stock. Any actions or publications by shareholder advisory firms critical of our corporate governance practices or capital structure could also adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock.. If we, BGC Holdings, or (prior to the distribution) Newmark were deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (which we refer to as the \"Investment Company Act\"), the Investment Company Act's. 77. restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our businesses and structure as contemplated and could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Generally, an entity is deemed an \"investment company\" under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act if it is primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities, and is deemed an \"investment company\" under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act if it owns \"investment securities\" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government Securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.  We believe that none of us, BGC Holdings, or Newmark should be deemed an \"investment company\" as defined under Section 3(a)(1)(A) because none of us, BGC Holdings, or Newmark is primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities.  Rather, through our operating subsidiaries, we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark are primarily engaged in the operation of various types of broker-dealer and commercial real estate services businesses as described in this report.  None of us, BGC Holdings, or Newmark is an \"investment company\" under Section 3(a)(1)(C) because more than 60% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis are interests in majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves \"investment companies.\"  In particular, our BGC broker-dealer subsidiaries are entitled to rely on, among other things, the broker-dealer/market intermediary exemption in Section 3(c)(2) of the Investment Company Act, and Berkeley Point, a significant Newmark subsidiary, is entitled to rely on, among other things, the mortgage banker exemption in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act.. To ensure that we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark are not deemed \"investment companies\" under the Investment Company Act, we need to be primarily engaged, directly or indirectly, in the non-investment company businesses of our operating subsidiaries.  If we were to cease participation in the management of BGC Holdings, if BGC Holdings, in turn, were to cease participation in the management of the BGC OpCos, or if the BGC OpCos, in turn, were to cease participation in the management of our BGC operating subsidiaries, or if we were to cease participation in the management of Newmark (or if Newmark were to cease participation in the management of Newmark Holdings, if Newmark Holdings were to cease participation in the management of Newmark OpCo, or if Newmark OpCo were to cease participation in the management of the Newmark operating subsidiaries), that would increase the possibility that we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark could be deemed \"investment companies.\"  Further, if we were deemed not to have a majority of the voting power of BGC Holdings (including through our ownership of the Special Voting Limited Partnership Interest), if BGC Holdings, in turn, were deemed not to have a majority of the voting power of the BGC OpCos (including through its ownership of Special Voting Limited Partnership Interests), or if the BGC OpCos, in turn, were deemed not to have a majority of the voting power of our BGC operating subsidiaries, or if we did not have a majority of the voting power of Newmark (or if Newmark did not have a majority of the voting power of Newmark Holdings, if Newmark Holdings did not have a majority of the voting power of Newmark OpCo, or if Newmark OpCo did not have a majority of the voting power of the Newmark operating subsidiaries), that would increase the possibility that we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark could be deemed \"investment companies,\" our interests in BGC Holdings and Newmark could be deemed \"investment securities,\" and we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark could be deemed \"investment companies.\". We expect to take all legally permissible action to ensure that we, BGC Holdings, and Newmark are not deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act, but no assurance can be given that this will not occur.. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed prescriptions for the organization and operations of investment companies.  Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, limit the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements.  If anything were to happen that would cause us, BGC Holdings, or Newmark to be deemed to be an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act, the Investment Company Act would limit our or its capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including Cantor, BGC, BGC Holdings, and Newmark, as the case may be), and ability to compensate key employees.  Therefore, if we, BGC Holdings, or Newmark became subject to the Investment Company Act, it could make it impractical to continue our businesses in this structure, impair agreements and arrangements, and impair the transactions contemplated by those agreements and arrangements, between and among us, BGC Holdings, and Newmark, or any combination thereof, and materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Partnership Structure. Our partnership structure may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain, compensate and motivate some employee partners.. While we believe that our BGC Holdings partnership structure promotes recruitment and retention and motivation of our employee partners, some employee partners may be more attracted to the benefits of working at a privately controlled partnership, or at a public company with a different compensation structure than our own, which may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain, compensate and motivate these persons. While BGC Holdings limited partnership interests entitle founding/working and other limited partners to participate in distributions of income from the operations of our businesses, upon leaving BGC Holdings (or upon any other redemption or purchase of such limited partnership interests, as described below), any such founding/working or other limited partners are, unless Cantor, in the case of the founding partners, and us, as the general partner of BGC Holdings, otherwise determine,. 78. only entitled to receive over time, and provided he or she does not violate certain partner obligations, an amount for his or her BGC Holdings limited partnership interests that reflects such partner's capital account or post-termination amount, if any, and not any goodwill or going concern value of our businesses. Further, certain partner units have no right to a post-termination payment, receive a preferred but fixed distribution amount, and/or cannot be made exchangeable into shares of our Class A common stock. Moreover, unless and until units are made exchangeable, limited partners have no unilateral right to exchange their BGC Holdings limited partnership interests for shares of Class A common stock.. The BGC Holdings limited partnership interests are also subject to redemption, and subject founding/working and other limited partners to non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, as well as other obligations. In addition, the exercise of Cantor's right to purchase from BGC Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests generally when founding partner units are redeemed or granted exchangeability will result in the share of distributions of income from the operations of our businesses on other outstanding BGC Holdings limited partnership interests, including those held by founding/working and other limited partners, to remain the same rather than increasing as would be the case if such interests were redeemed or granted exchangeability without such Cantor right to purchase. In addition, any purchase of exchangeable limited partnership units by Cantor from BGC Holdings following Cantor's decision to grant exchangeability on founding partner units will result in additional dilution to the other partners of BGC Holdings.. The terms of the BGC Holdings limited partnership interests held by founding/working and limited partners also provide for the following:. •  such units are not entitled to reinvest the distributions on their BGC Holdings limited partnership interests in additional BGC Holdings limited partnership interests at preferential or historical prices or at all; and. •  Cantor is entitled to receive any amounts from selected extraordinary transactions that are withheld from distributions to certain partners and forfeited by partners leaving BGC Holdings prior to their interests in such withheld distributions fully vesting, rather than any such forfeited amounts accruing to the benefit of all BGC Holdings limited partners on a pro rata basis.. In addition, the ability to acquire shares of our Class A common stock underlying BGC Holdings exchangeable units is not dependent upon the partner's continued employment with us or compliance with partner obligations, and such partners are therefore not restricted from leaving us by the potential loss of such shares.. The Newmark Holdings partnership structure is similar to the BGC Holdings partnership structure.  While we believe that it also promotes recruitment and retention and motivation of our employee partners, it may not do so in certain instances for the same reasons described herein with respect to the BGC Holdings partnership structure.. We may be required to pay Cantor for a significant portion of the tax benefit, if any, relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we claim as a result of any step up in the tax basis of the assets of BGC U.S., BGC Global or Newmark OpCo resulting from exchanges of interests in BGC Holdings (together with, prior to the distribution, interests in Newmark Holdings) for our common stock.. Certain partnership interests in BGC Holdings (together with, prior to the distribution, certain interests in Newmark Holdings) may be exchanged for shares of BGC Partners common stock. In the vast majority of cases, the partnership units that become exchangeable for shares of BGC common stock are units that have been granted as compensation, and, therefore, the exchange of such units will not result in an increase in BGC's share of the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of BGC U.S., BGC Global and/or Newmark OpCo. However, exchanges of other partnership units  -  including non-tax-free exchanges of units by Cantor  -  could result in an increase in the tax basis of such tangible and intangible assets that otherwise would not have been available, although the Internal Revenue Service may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge by the Internal Revenue Service. These increases in tax basis, if sustained, may reduce the amount of tax that BGC would otherwise be required to pay in the future. In such circumstances, the tax receivable agreement that BGC entered into with Cantor provides for the payment by BGC to Cantor of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in the U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that BGC actually realizes as a result of these increases in tax basis and certain other tax benefits related to its entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. It is expected that BGC will benefit from the remaining 15% cash savings, if any, in income tax that we realize.. Risks Related to our Relationship with Cantor and Its Affiliates. We are controlled by Cantor, which has potential conflicts of interest with us and may exercise its control in a way that favors its interests to our detriment.. Cantor effectively is able to exercise control over our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors and determinations with respect to acquisitions and dispositions, as well as material. 79. expansions or contractions of our businesses, entry into new lines of businesses and borrowings and issuances of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock or other securities. This control is subject to the approval of our Audit Committee on those matters requiring such approval. Cantor's voting power may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us.. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Cantor in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including:. •  potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses;. •  the issuance or disposition of securities by us;. •  the election of new or additional directors to our board of directors;. •  the payment of dividends by us (if any), distribution of profits by BGC U.S., BGC Global and/or BGC Holdings and repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock or purchases of BGC Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners, and others;. •  business operations or business opportunities of ours and Cantor's that would compete with the other party's business opportunities, including Cantor's and our brokerage and financial services;. •  intellectual property matters;. •  business combinations involving us;. •  conflicts between our agency trading for primary and secondary bond sales and Cantor's investment banking bond origination business;. •  competition between our and Cantor's other equity derivatives and cash equity inter-dealer brokerage businesses;. •  the nature, quality and pricing of administrative services to be provided to or by Cantor and/or Tower Bridge; and. •  provision of clearing capital pursuant to the Clearing Agreement and potential and existing loan arrangements.. We also expect Cantor to manage its ownership of us so that it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including by maintaining its voting power in us above a majority absent an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act. This may result in conflicts with us, including those relating to acquisitions or offerings by us involving issuances of shares of our Class A common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of Class A common stock, that would dilute Cantor's voting power in us.. In addition, Cantor has from time to time in the past and may in the future consider possible strategic realignments of its own businesses and/or of the relationships that exist between and among Cantor and its other affiliates and us. Any future related-party transaction or arrangement between Cantor and its other affiliates and us is subject to the prior approval by our Audit Committee, but generally does not otherwise require the separate approval of our stockholders, and if such stockholder approval is required, Cantor may retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders. Further, our regulators, including the FCA, may require the consolidation, for regulatory purposes, of Cantor and its other affiliates and us with respect to our U.K.-regulated entities or other entities or require other restructuring of the group. There is no assurance that such consolidation or restructuring would not result in a material expense or disruption to our businesses.. Moreover, the service of officers or partners of Cantor as our executive officers and directors, and those persons' ownership interests in and payments from Cantor and its affiliates, could create conflicts of interest when we and those directors or executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and Cantor. Our ability to retain our key employees and the ability of certain key employees to devote adequate time to us are critical to the success of our businesses, and failure to do so may adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our agreements and other arrangements with Cantor may be amended upon agreement of the parties to those agreements upon approval of our Audit Committee. During the time that we are controlled by Cantor, Cantor may be able to require us to agree to amendments to these agreements. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party.. In order to address potential conflicts of interest between Cantor and its representatives and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions regulating and defining the conduct of our affairs as they may involve Cantor and its representatives, and our powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of our representatives in connection with our relationship with Cantor and its affiliates, officers, directors, general partners or employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that no Cantor Company, as defined in our certificate of incorporation, or any of the representatives, as defined in our certificate of incorporation, of a Cantor Company will owe any fiduciary duty to, nor will any Cantor Company or any of their respective representatives be liable for breach of fiduciary duty to, us or any of our stockholders, including with respect to corporate opportunities. In addition, Cantor and its. 80. respective representatives have no duty to refrain from engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as us or doing business with any of our customers. The corporate opportunity policy that is included in our certificate of incorporation is designed to resolve potential conflicts of interest between us and Cantor and its representatives.. The BGC Holdings and Newmark Holdings limited partnership agreements contain similar provisions with respect to us and/or Cantor and Newmark and each of our respective representatives, and the BGC U.S. and BGC Global limited partnership agreements, as well as the Newmark Opco limited partnership agreement, contain similar provisions with respect to us and/or BGC Holdings and Newmark Holdings and each of our respective representatives.. If Cantor competes with us, it could materially harm our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Agreements between us and Cantor are between related parties, and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties and may subject us to litigation.. Our relationship with Cantor results in agreements with Cantor that are between related parties. As a result, the prices charged to us or by us for services provided under agreements with Cantor may be higher or lower than prices that may be charged by third parties, and the terms of these agreements may be less favorable to us than those that we could have negotiated with third parties. For example, pursuant to the separation agreement relating to our acquisition of certain of our BGC businesses from Cantor in 2008, Cantor has a right, subject to certain conditions, to be our customer and to pay the lowest commissions paid by any other customer, whether by volume, dollar or other applicable measure. In addition, Cantor has an unlimited right to internally use market data from us without any cost. Any future related-party transactions or arrangements between us and Cantor are subject to the prior approval by our Audit Committee, but generally do not otherwise require the separate approval of our stockholders, and if such stockholder approval were required, Cantor may retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of the other stockholders.. These related-party relationships may from time to time subject us to litigation. For example, a purported derivative action, since dismissed, was filed alleging that certain related-party transactions were unfair to us.. We are controlled by Cantor, which in turn controls its wholly owned subsidiary, CF&Co, which is acting as our sales agent in our controlled equity offerings and provides us with additional investment banking services. In addition, other affiliates of Cantor may provide us with advice and services from time to time.. We are controlled by Cantor, which in turn controls its wholly owned subsidiary, CF&Co, which acts as our sales agent pursuant to a controlled equity offering sales agreement entered into on April 12, 2017 (the \"Sales Agreement,\") and we may enter into similar agreements in the future.  Pursuant to the Sales Agreement, we may offer and sell up to an aggregate of 20 million shares of our Class A common stock. Under the Sales Agreement, we agree to pay CF&Co 2% of the gross proceeds from the sale of shares of our Class A common stock.. In selling shares of our Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement, we may determine to instruct CF&Co not to sell our shares at less than a minimum price per share designated by us. Alternatively, we may instruct CF&Co to sell our shares so as to seek to realize a designated minimum price per share for all shares sold over a designated time period, or so as to seek to raise a designated minimum dollar amount of gross proceeds from sales of all such shares over a designated time period.. CF&Co has retained independent legal advisors in connection with its role as sales agent under the Sales Agreement, but for the reasons described below it may not be in a position to provide us with independent financial input in connection with the offering of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement. We are not required to, and have not engaged, an independent investment banking firm to act as a qualified independent underwriter or to otherwise provide us with independent input in our controlled equity offerings.. While our board of directors and Audit Committee will be involved with any future decision by us to enter into or terminate new sales agreements with CF&Co, our management has been delegated the authority to determine, and to so instruct CF&Co with respect to, matters involving the manner, timing, number of shares, and minimum prices per share or proceeds for sales of our shares, or the suspension thereof, in our controlled equity offering pursuant to the Sales Agreement. Our management may be expected to consult with appropriate personnel from CF&Co in making such determinations, but given the overlap between our senior management and that of Cantor and its wholly-owned subsidiary, CF&Co, it may be expected that any joint determinations by our senior management and that of CF&Co with respect to our controlled equity offering will involve the same individuals. In making such joint determinations, our Audit Committee has instructed our senior management to act in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Nevertheless, in making such determinations, such individuals will not have the benefit of input from an independent investment banking firm that is able to make its own determinations with respect to our controlled equity offering, including, but not limited to, whether to suspend sales under the Sales Agreement or to terminate the Sales Agreement.. 81. In addition, Cantor, CF&Co and their affiliates have provided investment banking services to us and our affiliates in the past, and may be expected to do so in the future, including acting as our financial advisor in connection with business combinations, dispositions, or other transactions, including the acquisition of GFI, and placing or recommending to us various investments, stock loans or cash management vehicles. They receive customary fees and commissions for these services. They may also receive brokerage and market data and analytics products and services from us and our respective affiliates. From time to time, CF&Co may make a market in our notes. We also provide to and receive from Cantor and its affiliates various administrative services.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Purchasers, as well as existing stockholders, may experience significant dilution as a result of offerings of shares of our Class A common stock.. The Sales Agreement with CF&Co currently remains in effect to assist us with partner and employee sales of shares of Class A common stock. It provides for the issuance and sale of up to an aggregate of 20 million shares of our Class A common stock from time to time on a delayed or continuous basis. As of February 20, 2018, we have issued and sold an aggregate of approximately 17.3 million shares of Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement, with approximately 2.7 million shares of Class A common stock remaining to be sold under the Agreement.  Further, we have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-4 with respect to the offer and sale of up to an aggregate of 20 million shares of Class A common stock from time to time in connection with business combination transactions, including acquisitions of other businesses, assets, properties or securities. As of February 20, 2018, we have issued an aggregate of 11.0 million shares of Class A common stock under the Form S-4, all in connection with acquisitions. In addition, in connection with the conversion of our 8.75% Convertible Senior Notes due April 15, 2015, on April 13, 2015 we issued to Cantor in a private placement 24,042,599 shares of our Class A common stock, and in connection with the JPI Back-End Merger to complete our acquisition of GFI, on January 12, 2016 we issued to the JPI stockholders in a private placement 23,481,192 shares of Class A common stock; in both cases, we filed effective shelf registration statements on Form S-3, registering such shares of Class A common stock for resale. We also have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 pursuant to which we can offer and sell up to an aggregate of 10 million shares of our Class A common stock under our Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. As of February 20, 2018, we have issued approximately 342,000 shares of our Class A common stock under such Plan. We have filed a number of registration statements on Form S-8 pursuant to which we have registered the shares underlying our Long Term Incentive Plan. As of January 31, 2018, there were 188.5 million shares remaining for sale under such registration statements.. Because the sales of shares of our Class A common stock under the Sales Agreements have been made, and any other future sales of our Class A common stock may be made, in the markets at prevailing market prices or at prices related to such prevailing market prices, the prices at which these shares have been sold and may be sold in the future will vary, and these variations may be significant. Purchasers of these shares may suffer significant dilution if the price they pay is higher than the price paid by other purchasers of shares of our Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement and any future offerings of our shares of Class A common stock.. In addition, the sale by us of any shares of our Class A common stock may have the following effects:. •  our existing Class A common stockholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. •  our existing Class A common stockholders may suffer significant dilution;. •  the amount of cash available per share for dividends payable on shares of our Class A common stock may decrease;. •  the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share of our Class A common stock may be diminished; and. •  the market price of our Class A common stock may decline.. Because we intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of shares of our Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement, and may use the net proceeds from future offerings, for general corporate purposes, which, among other things, are expected to include repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock and purchases of BGC Holdings units or other equity interests in us or in our subsidiaries from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners, and others, and/or to replenish cash used to effect such repurchases and purchases, investors should be aware that such net proceeds will not be available for other corporate purposes, and that, depending upon the timing and prices of such repurchases of shares and purchases of units and of the sales of our shares under the Sales Agreement and the liquidity and depth of our market, we may sell a greater aggregate number of shares, at a lower average price per share, under the Sales Agreement than the number of shares or units repurchased or purchased, thereby increasing the aggregate number of shares and units outstanding and decreasing our earnings per share.. We intend to use the net proceeds of the sale of shares of Class A common stock under the Sales Agreement, and may use the net proceeds from future offerings, for general corporate purposes, which among other things, are expected to include repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock and purchases of BGC Holdings units or other equity interests in us or in our subsidiaries,. 82. including Newmark and its subsidiaries, from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners, and others, and/or to replenish cash used to effect such repurchases and purchases. From January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, we repurchased an aggregate of 1.4 million shares of Class A common stock at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $16.8 million with an average repurchase price of $12.10 per share. During that period, we redeemed for cash an aggregate of 7.6 million limited partnership units at an average price of $12.40 per unit and an aggregate of 875.6 thousand founding/working partner units at an average price of $10.70 per unit. In the future, we expect to continue to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock and redeem or partnership units from Cantor, our executive officers, other employees, partners, and others, and these repurchases and purchases may be significant.. To the extent that we continue to use the net proceeds of the sale of shares of our Class A common stock to fund repurchases of shares and purchases of units, or to replenish cash used to effect repurchases and purchases, net proceeds will not be available for other corporate purposes. In addition, to the extent that we seek to sell shares of our Class A common stock to raise net proceeds for repurchases of shares and purchases of units, depending upon the timing and prices of the repurchases of shares and purchases of units and of the sales of our shares and the liquidity and depth of our market, we may in fact sell a greater aggregate number of shares of our Class A common stock, at a lower average price per share, in our offerings than the aggregate number of shares repurchased and units purchased by us and the average price per share or unit that we are paying in such repurchases and purchases. Thus, our strategy may result in an increase in the number of our shares and units outstanding and a decrease in our earnings per share on both a basic and a fully diluted basis.. Nevertheless, our management believes that selling shares of our Class A common stock, and using the net proceeds of such sales to repurchase shares and purchase units, is in our best interest and that of our stockholders. While we believe that we can successfully manage our strategy, and that our share price may in fact increase as we increase the amount of cash available for dividends and share repurchases and unit purchases by paying a portion of the compensation of our employees in the form of partnership units and restricted stock, gradually lowering our compensation expenses for purposes of distributable earnings, and lowering our long-term effective tax rate for distributable earnings, there can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful or that we can achieve any or all of such objectives.. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. In addition, future sales of shares of Class A common stock by us or selling stockholders could materially adversely affect the market price of the Class A common stock.. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated significantly, and the market price of our Class A common stock may continue to do so depending upon many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the financial and commercial real estate markets in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, seasonality, changes in general valuations for companies in our business segments, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. The market price of our Class A common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations, which may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. Declines in the price of our Class A common stock may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees, including brokers, salespeople, managers and other professionals.. Future sales of shares of our Class A common stock also could materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares of our Class A common stock in connection with public offerings, future acquisitions, strategic alliances, third-party investments and private placements or otherwise, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline significantly.. In addition to our sales of shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to our controlled equity offerings, our acquisition shelf, and our dividend reinvestment plan discussed above, events which could have such an effect include the following:. •  In connection with the issuance of 24,042,599 shares of Class A common stock to Cantor upon the conversion by Cantor of the 8.75% Convertible Senior Notes, we filed an effective resale registration statement for such shares on Form S-3 on June 16, 2015;. •  In connection with the issuance of 23,481,192 shares of Class A common stock upon the closing of the JPI Back-End Merger, we filed an effective resale registration statement for such shares on Form S-3 on January 12, 2016;. •  We may issue shares of Class A common stock upon the conversion or exchange of any convertible or exchangeable debt securities that may be issued by us in the future;. •  Stockholders may resell shares of Class A common stock issuable by us in connection with (i) the conversion by Cantor of shares of its Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock, (ii) the exchange of Cantor's exchangeable limited partnership interests, (iii) the exchange, redemption, or purchase of partnership units for shares of Class A common stock, including in partnership restructurings, (iv) incentive compensation, including. 83. grants of restricted stock, RSUs, and options, and (v) donations of shares by us to The Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund; and. •  Stockholders may resell outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, including sales by Cantor partners who receive distribution rights shares from Cantor, The Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund which may receive donated shares from Cantor or others, and our employees and partners who hold our shares, including those received in compensatory arrangements from us or in connection with acquisitions.. ADDITIONAL RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR OWNERSHIP OF NEWMARK GROUP, INC.. Our publicly traded subsidiary Newmark is controlled by BGC Partners (which is controlled by Cantor). Upon completion of the distribution, Newmark will be controlled by Cantor. BGC Partners' and Cantor's respective interests may conflict with Newmark's interests, and BGC Partners and Cantor may exercise their control in a way that favors their respective interests to Newmark's detriment.. As of December 31, 2017, BGC Partners held 115,593,786 shares of Newmark's Class A common stock, which represented approximately 83.4% of Newmark's outstanding Class A common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, BGC Partners held 15,840,049 shares of Newmark's Class B common stock  which represented all of the outstanding shares of Newmark's Class B common stock. Together, the shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock held by BGC Partners represented approximately 92.3% of Newmark's total voting power. BGC Partners is controlled by Cantor. If the distribution occurs, Cantor will beneficially own 6,671,146 shares of Newmark's Class A common stock representing approximately 4.8% of Newmark's outstanding Class A common stock, and all of the outstanding shares of Newmark's Class B common stock, together representing approximately 55.6% of Newmark's total voting power. We expect Newmark to retain its dual class structure, and there are no circumstances under which the holders of Class B common stock would be required to convert their shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock.. As a result, BGC Partners, directly through its ownership of shares of Newmark's Class A common stock and Class B common stock, and Cantor, indirectly through its control of BGC Partners, are each able to exercise control over Newmark's management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of its directors and determinations with respect to acquisitions and dispositions, as well as material expansions or contractions of its business, entry into new lines of business and borrowings and issuances of its Class A common stock and Class B common stock or other securities. BGC Partners' voting power, prior to the completion of the distribution, and Cantor's voting power, indirectly prior to the completion of the distribution and directly after the completion of the distribution, may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Newmark.. BGC Partners' and Cantor's ability to exercise control over Newmark could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between Newmark and each of BGC Partners and Cantor in a number of areas relating to their past and ongoing relationships, including:. •  potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses;. •  the issuance or disposition of securities by Newmark;. •  the election of new or additional directors to our board of directors;. •  the payment of dividends by Newmark (if any), distribution of profits by Newmark OpCo and/or Newmark Holdings and repurchases of shares of Newmark's Class A common stock or purchases of Newmark Holdings limited partnership interests or other equity interests in our subsidiaries, including from BGC Partners, Cantor or Newmark's executive officers, other employees, partners and others;. •  business operations or business opportunities of Newmark's and BGC Partners' or Cantor's that would compete with the other party's business opportunities;. •  intellectual property matters;. •  business combinations involving us; and. •  the nature, quality and pricing of administrative services and transition services to be provided to or by BGC Partners or Cantor or their respective affiliates.. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if Newmark decides to enter into any new commercial arrangements with BGC Partners or Cantor in the future or in connection with BGC Partners' or Cantor's desire to enter into new commercial arrangements with third parties.. We also expect each of BGC Partners and Cantor to manage its respective ownership of Newmark so that it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including by maintaining its voting power in Newmark. 84. above a majority absent an applicable exemption from the Investment Company Act. This may result in conflicts with Newmark, including those relating to acquisitions or offerings by it involving issuances of shares of its Class A common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of Class A common stock, that would dilute BGC Partners' or Cantor's voting power in Newmark.. In addition, each of BGC Partners and Cantor has from time to time in the past and may in the future consider possible strategic realignments of its own businesses and/or of the relationships that exist between and among BGC Partners and/or Cantor and their other respective affiliates and us. Any future material related-party transaction or arrangement between BGC Partners and/or Cantor and their other respective affiliates and Newmark is subject to the prior approval by Newmark's audit committee, but generally does not require the separate approval of its stockholders, and if such stockholder approval is required, BGC Partners and/or Cantor may retain sufficient voting power to provide any such requisite approval without the affirmative consent of Newmark's other stockholders. Further, Newmark's regulators may require the consolidation, for regulatory purposes, of BGC Partners, Cantor and/or their other respective affiliates and Newmark or require other restructuring of the group. There is no assurance that such consolidation or restructuring would not result in a material expense or disruption to Newmark's business.. Cantor has existing real estate-related businesses, and Newmark and Cantor are partners in a real estate-related joint venture, Real Estate LP. While these businesses do not currently compete with Newmark, it is possible that, in the future, real estate-related opportunities in which Newmark would be interested may also be pursued by Cantor and/or Real Estate LP, and Real Estate LP may conduct activities in any real estate-related business or asset-backed securities-related business or any extensions thereof and ancillary activities thereto. For example, Cantor's commercial lending business has historically offered conduit loans to the multifamily market. While conduit loans have certain key differences versus multifamily agency loans, such as those offered by Berkeley Point, there can be no assurance that Cantor's and/or Real Estate LP's lending businesses will not seek to offer multifamily loans to Newmark's existing and potential multifamily customer base.. Moreover, the service of officers or partners of BGC Partners or Cantor as Newmark's executive officers and directors, and those persons' ownership interests in and payments from BGC Partners or Cantor and their respective affiliates, could create conflicts of interest when Newmark and those directors or executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Newmark and them.. Newmark also has entered into agreements that provide certain rights to the holder of a majority of the Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interest, which is currently Cantor. For example, the Separation and Distribution Agreement provides that any quarterly dividend to Newmark's common stockholders that is 25% or more of its post-tax Adjusted Earnings per fully diluted share shall require the consent of the holder of a majority of the Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests. In addition, the Separation and Distribution Agreement requires Newmark to contribute any reinvestment cash (i.e., any cash that Newmark retains, after the payment of taxes, as a result of distributing a smaller percentage than Newmark Holdings from the distributions they receive from Newmark OpCo), as an additional capital contribution with respect to its existing limited partnership interest in Newmark OpCo, unless Newmark and the holder of a majority of the Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests agree otherwise. See \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Adjustment to Exchange Ratio\" and \"Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Use of Reinvestment Cash.\" It is possible that Cantor, as the holder of a majority of the Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interest, will not agree to a higher dividend percentage or a different use of reinvestment cash, even if doing so might be more advantageous to the Newmark stockholders.. Newmark's agreements and other arrangements with BGC Partners and Cantor, including the separation and distribution agreement, may be amended upon agreement of the parties to those agreements and approval of Newmark's audit committee. During the time that Newmark is controlled by BGC Partners and/or Cantor, BGC Partners and/or Cantor may be able to require Newmark to agree to amendments to these agreements. Newmark may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if it does, the resolution may be less favorable to it than if it were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Additionally, pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, for so long as BGC Partners beneficially owns at least 50% of the total voting power of Newmark's outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, Newmark will not, and will cause its subsidiaries to not (without BGC Partners' prior written consent) take certain actions, including, without limitation, acquiring any other businesses or assets or disposing of any of its assets, in each case with an aggregate value for all such transactions in excess of $100 million, or incurring any indebtedness, other than indebtedness not in excess of $50 million in the aggregate or any indebtedness some or all of the proceeds of which are used to repay the Term Loan, the Converted Term Loan or the BGC Notes. See \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Separation and Distribution Agreement - Operating Covenants.\". In order to address potential conflicts of interest between or among BGC Partners, Cantor and their respective representatives and Newmark, Newmark's certificate of incorporation contains provisions regulating and defining the conduct of its affairs as they may involve BGC Partners and/or Cantor and their respective representatives, and Newmark's powers, rights, duties and liabilities and those of its representatives in connection therewith. Newmark's certificate of incorporation provides that, to the greatest extent permitted by law, no Cantor Company or BGC Partners Company, each as defined in Newmark's certificate of incorporation, or any of the representatives, as defined in Newmark's certificate of incorporation, of a Cantor Company or BGC Partners Company will, in its capacity as a Newmark stockholder or affiliate, owe or be liable for breach of any fiduciary duty to. 85. Newmark or any of its stockholders. In addition, to the greatest extent permitted by law, none of any Cantor Company, BGC Partners Company or any of their respective representatives will owe any duty to refrain from engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as Newmark or its representatives or doing business with any of Newmark or its representatives' clients or customers. If any Cantor Company, BGC Partners Company or any of their respective representatives acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity (as defined in Newmark's certificate of incorporation) for any such person, on the one hand, and Newmark or any of its representatives, on the other hand, such person will have no duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to Newmark or any of its representatives, and will not be liable to Newmark, any of its stockholders or any of its representatives for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that they pursue or acquire such corporate opportunity for themselves, direct such corporate opportunity to another person or do not present such corporate opportunity to Newmark or any of its representatives, subject to the requirement described in the following sentence. If a third party presents a corporate opportunity to a person who is both Newmark's representative and a representative of a BGC Partners Company and/or a Cantor Company, expressly and solely in such person's capacity as Newmark's representative, and such person acts in good faith in a manner consistent with the policy that such corporate opportunity belongs to Newmark, then such person will be deemed to have fully satisfied and fulfilled any fiduciary duty that such person has to Newmark as its representative with respect to such corporate opportunity, provided that any BGC Partners Company, any Cantor Company or any of their respective representatives may pursue such corporate opportunity if Newmark decides not to pursue such corporate opportunity.. The corporate opportunity policy that is included in Newmark's certificate of incorporation is designed to resolve potential conflicts of interest between Newmark and its representatives and BGC Partners, Cantor and their respective representatives. The Newmark Holdings limited partnership agreement contains similar provisions with respect to Newmark and/or BGC Partners and Cantor and each of their respective representatives, and the Newmark OpCo limited partnership agreement will contain similar provisions with respect to Newmark and/or Newmark Holdings and each of their respective representatives. This policy, however, could make it easier for BGC Partners or Cantor to compete with Newmark. If BGC Partners or Cantor competes with Newmark, it could materially harm Newmark's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The market price of Newmark's Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our ownership of its Class A common stock to decline.. As of December 31, 2017, BGC Partners held 115,593,786 shares of Newmark's Class A common stock, which represented approximately 83.4 % of Newmark's outstanding Class A common stock.  The market price of Newmark's Class A common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including:. •  its quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in its results of operations;. •  differences between its actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. •  changes in analysts' recommendations or estimates or Newmark's ability to meet those estimates;. •  the prospects of its competition and of the commercial real estate market in general;. •  changes in general valuations for companies in its industry; and. •  changes in business, legal or regulatory conditions, or other general economic or market conditions and overall market fluctuations.. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" or under \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" could have a material adverse impact on the market price of Newmark's Class A common stock in the future and cause the value of our ownership of Newmark's Class A common stock to decline. In addition, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of Newmark's Class A common stock.. In the past, stockholders of other companies have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against issuers following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against Newmark could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and its other resources and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There is no assurance that such a suit will not be brought against Newmark.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about Newmark's business, or publish negative reports about its business, its share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for Newmark's Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about Newmark or its business. If one or more of the analysts who cover Newmark downgrade is stock or publish unfavorable research about its business, Newmark's stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases. 86. coverage of the company or fails to publish reports on it regularly, demand for Newmark's stock could decrease, which might cause its stock price and trading volume to decline.. Future sales of shares of Newmark's Class A common stock could adversely affect the market price of Newmark's Class A common stock. Newmark's stockholders (including us) could be diluted by such future sales and be further diluted upon exchange of Newmark Holdings limited partnership interests into Newmark's common stock and upon issuance of additional Newmark OpCo limited partnership interests to Newmark Holdings as a result of future issuances of Newmark Holdings limited partnership interests.. Future sales of Newmark's shares could adversely affect the market price of its Class A common stock. If its existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if it issues a large number of shares of its common stock in connection with future acquisitions, strategic alliances, third-party investments and private placements or otherwise, the market price of its Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell shares could depress the market price of its Class A common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, BGC Partners held 115,593,786 shares of Newmark's Class A common stock, representing approximately 83.4% of Newmark's outstanding Class A common stock.  In addition, as of December 31, 2017, BGC Partners held 15,840,049 shares of Newmark's Class B common stock representing all of the outstanding shares of Newmark's Class B common stock. Together, the shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock held by BGC Partners represented approximately 92.3% of Newmark's total voting power.. BGC Partners currently expects to pursue a distribution to its stockholders of all of the shares of Newmark's common stock that it then owns in a manner that is intended to qualify as generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of whether, when and how to proceed with any such distribution is entirely within our discretion. The shares of Newmark's common stock that BGC Partners and Newmark's executive officers and directors own are subject to the 180-day \"lock-up\" restriction contained in the underwriting agreement for the Newmark IPO. If the distribution occurs, the distributed shares of Class A common stock would be eligible for immediate resale in the public market, except for those held by Cantor and other Newmark affiliates, which distributed shares could be sold pursuant to a registered offering or pursuant to an exemption under the Securities Act. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of Newmark's Class A common stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, the distribution. Any potential sale, disposition or distribution of Newmark's Class A common stock, or the perception that such sale, disposition or distribution could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Newmark's Class A common stock.. Even if BGC Partners does not distribute the shares of Newmark's common stock that it owns by means of the distribution, BGC Partners may sell all or a portion of such shares to the public or in one or more private transactions after the expiration of the \"lock-up\" restriction on June 13, 2018.  Newmark has entered into a registration rights agreement with BGC Partners and Cantor that grants them registration rights to facilitate their sale of shares of Newmark's Class A common stock in the market. Any sale or distribution, or expectations in the market of a possible sale or distribution, by BGC Partners or Cantor of all or a portion of Newmark's shares of Class A common stock through the distribution, in a registered offering, pursuant to an exemption under the Securities Act or otherwise could depress or reduce the market price for Newmark's Class A common stock or cause Newmark's shares to trade below the prices at which they would otherwise trade.. Moreover, the shares of Newmark's Class A common stock sold in the Newmark IPO are freely tradable without restriction, except for any shares acquired by a Newmark affiliate, which shares can be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to various volume and other limitations. Subject to certain limited exceptions, Newmark, its executive officers and directors and BGC Partners have agreed with the underwriters not to directly or indirectly sell, dispose of or hedge any shares of Newmark's Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Newmark's Class A common stock without the prior written consent of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated for the period ending on June 13, 2018.  After the expiration of the 180-day \"lock-up\" restriction, Newmark's executive officers and directors and BGC Partners could dispose of all or any part of their shares of Newmark's Class A common stock through a public offering, sales under Rule 144 or other transactions. In addition, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated may, in their sole discretion, release all or some portion of the shares subject to lock-up agreements at any time and for any reason. Sales of a substantial number of such shares upon expiration of the lock-up restriction and market stand-off agreements, the perception that such sales may occur, or early release of these agreements, could cause Newmark's market price to fall or make it more difficult for an investor to sell shares of Class A common stock at a time and price that such an investor may deem appropriate.. Newmark has registered under the Securities Act 50 million of the 400 million shares of its Class A common stock which are reserved for issuance upon exercise of options, restricted stock and other equity awards granted under Newmark's  Long-Term Incentive Plan (which we refer to as the \"Newmark Equity Plan\") and expects to register the balance from time to time in the future. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by. 87. affiliates. Newmark may in the future register additional shares of Class A common stock under the Securities Act that become reserved for issuance under other equity incentive plans.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there are outstanding 76,431,000 limited partnership interests of Newmark Holdings. Some of those limited partnership interests will be exchangeable with Newmark for shares of Newmark common stock based on the exchange ratio (which is currently one, but is subject to adjustments as set forth in the separation and distribution agreement). See \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Adjustment to Exchange Ratio.\" Prior to the distribution, however, such exchanges are subject to the limitation as described below under \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Amended and Restated Newmark Holdings Limited Partnership Agreement - Exchanges.\" Shares of Class A common stock issued upon such exchange would be eligible for resale in the public market. See \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Amended and Restated Newmark Holdings Limited Partnership Agreement - Exchanges.\". Newmark may register for resale the shares of its Class A common stock for which the Newmark Holdings limited partnership interests are exchangeable. In light of the number of shares of Newmark common stock issuable in connection with the full exchange of the Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests, the price of Newmark's Class A common stock may decrease and Newmark's ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities may be adversely impacted as these exchanges occur and any transfer restrictions lapse.. Prior to the distribution, to the extent that BGC Partners receives any Newmark OpCo units as a result of any exchange of Newmark Holdings exchangeable limited partnership interests or as a result of any contribution by BGC Partners to Newmark OpCo or purchase by BGC Partners of Newmark OpCo units, then, in each case, BGC Partners will contribute such Newmark OpCo units to Newmark in exchange for an equal number of newly issued shares of Newmark common stock, which would dilute the other stockholders of Newmark. See \"Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions - Separation and Distribution Agreement - BGC Partners Contribution of Newmark OpCo Units Prior to the Distribution.\". Any such potential sale, disposition or distribution of Newmark common stock, or the perception that such sale, disposition or distribution could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Newmark's Class A common stock and have a material adverse effect on the value of our ownership interest in Newmark."
