[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements appearing just before the section captioned \"Business\" in Item 1. above. Effective December 29, 2016, we implemented a reverse stock split of our outstanding common stock at a ratio of 1-for-12 shares. All share figures are reflected on a post-split basis.. Business and Financial Risks. Based on our lack of sufficient revenue since inception and recurring losses from operations, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. Due to, among other factors, our history of losses and limited revenue, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion for the year ended December 31, 2017 as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which contemplate that we will continue to operate as a going concern. Our financial statements do not contain any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern.. Since our formation, we have historically not generated significant revenue and have sustained substantial operating losses.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $67.1 million. In order to increase revenue, we have developed a direct sales force and anticipate the need to retain additional sales, marketing and technical support personnel and may need to incur substantial expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure these necessary resources, that a significant market for our technologies will develop, or that we will be able to achieve our targeted revenue. If we are unable to achieve revenue or raise capital sufficient to cover our ongoing operating expenses, we will be required to scale back operations, including marketing and research initiatives, or in the extreme case, discontinue operations.. 7. Our biometric technology has yet to gain widespread market acceptance and we do not know how large of a market will develop for our technology.. Biometric technology has received only limited market acceptance, particularly in the private sector. Our technology represents a novel security solution and we have not yet generated significant sales. Although recent security concerns relating to identification of individuals and appearance of biometric readers on popular consumer products, including the Apple iPhone, have increased interest in biometrics generally, it remains an undeveloped, evolving market. Biometric based solutions compete with more traditional security methods including keys, cards, personal identification numbers and security personnel. Acceptance of biometrics as an alternative to such traditional methods depends upon a number of factors including:. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\tnational or international events which may affect the need for or interest in biometric solutions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\tthe performance and reliability of biometric solutions;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarketing efforts and publicity regarding these solutions;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublic perception regarding privacy concerns;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcosts involved in adopting and integrating biometric solutions;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information; and. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition from non-biometric technologies that provide more affordable, but less robust, authentication (such as tokens and smart cards).. For these reasons, we are uncertain whether our biometric technology will gain widespread acceptance in any commercial markets or that demand will be sufficient to create a market large enough to produce significant revenue or earnings. Our future success depends, in part, upon business customers adopting biometrics generally, and our solution specifically.. Biometric technology is a new approach to Internet security, which must be accepted in order for our WEB-key ® solution to generate significant revenue.. Our WEB-key authentication initiative represents a new approach to Internet security, which has been adopted on a limited basis by companies that distribute goods, content or software applications over the Internet. The implementation of our WEB-key solution requires the distribution and use of a finger scanning device and integration of database and server side software. Although we believe our solutions provide a higher level of security for information transmitted over the Internet than existing traditional methods, unless business and consumer markets embrace the use of a scanning device and believe the benefits of increased accuracy outweigh implementation costs, our solution will not gain market acceptance.. The market for our solutions is still developing and if the biometrics industry adopts standards or a platform different from our standards or platform, our competitive position would be negatively affected.. The market for identity solutions is still developing. The evolution of this market may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with our current solutions, products or technologies. Several organizations set standards for biometrics to be used in identification and documentation. Although we believe that our biometric technologies comply with existing standards, these standards may change and any standards adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and current or future solutions, products and services.. Our software products may contain defects which will make it more difficult for us to establish and maintain customers.. Although we have completed the development of our core biometric technology, it has only been used by a limited number of business customers. Despite extensive testing during development, our software may contain undetected design faults and software errors, or “bugs” that are discovered only after it has been installed and used by a greater number of customers. Any such defect or error in new or existing software or applications could cause delays in delivering our technology or require design modifications. These could adversely affect our competitive position and cause us to lose potential customers or opportunities. Since our technologies are intended to be utilized to secure physical and electronic access, the effect of any such bugs or delays will likely have a detrimental impact on us. In addition, given that biometric technology generally, and our biometric technology specifically, has yet to gain widespread acceptance in the market, any delays would likely have a more detrimental impact on our business than if we were a more established company.. 8. In order to generate revenue from our biometric products, we are dependent upon independent original equipment manufacturers, system integrators and application developers, which we do not control. As a result, it may be more difficult to generate sales.. We market our technology through licensing arrangements with:. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\tOriginal equipment manufacturers, system integrators and application developers which develop and market products and applications which can then be sold to end users;. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\tCompanies which distribute goods, services or software applications over the Internet. As a technology licensing company, our success will depend upon the ability of these manufacturers and developers to effectively integrate our technology into products and services which they market and sell. We have no control over these licensees and cannot assure you that they have the financial, marketing or technical resources to successfully develop and distribute products or applications acceptable to end users or generate any meaningful revenue for us. These third parties may also offer the products of our competitors to end users. While we have commenced a significant sales and marketing effort, we have only begun to develop a significant distribution channel and may not have the resources or ability to sustain these efforts or generate any meaningful sales.. We face intense competition and may not have the financial and human resources necessary to keep up with rapid technological changes, which may result in our technology becoming obsolete.. The Internet, facility access control and information security markets are subject to rapid technological change and intense competition. We compete with both established biometric companies and a significant number of startup enterprises as well as providers of more traditional methods of access control. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may independently develop superior technologies, which may result in our technology becoming less competitive or obsolete. We may not be able to keep pace with this change. If we are unable to develop new applications or enhance our existing technology in a timely manner in response to technological changes, we will be unable to compete in our chosen markets. In addition, if one or more other biometric technologies such as voice, face, iris, hand geometry or blood vessel recognition are widely adopted, it would significantly reduce the potential market for our fingerprint identification technology.. We introduced our products in Asian markets in 2016. Our financial performance will be subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies.. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, if any, and could lead to us raising international pricing, potentially reducing the demand for our products. In addition, margins on sales of our products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. We depend on key employees and members of our management team, including our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Technology Officer, in order to achieve our goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain or attract such persons.. Our employment contracts with Michael W. DePasquale, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Mira LaCous, our Chief Technology Officer, expire annually, and renew automatically for successive one year periods unless notice of non-renewal is provided by the Company. Although the contracts do not prevent them from resigning, they do contain confidentiality and non-compete clauses, which are intended to prevent them from working for a competitor within one year after leaving our Company. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain employees with expertise in developing, marketing and selling software solutions. In order to successfully market our technology, we will need to retain additional engineering, technical support and marketing personnel. The market for such persons remains highly competitive and our limited financial resources will make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified persons.. 9. We cannot assure you that the intellectual property protection for our core technology provides a sustainable competitive advantage or barrier to entry against our competitors.. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon proprietary rights to our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets and technical measures to protect our propriety rights. We have filed a patent application relating to both the optic technology and biometrics solution components of our technology wherein several claims have been allowed. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued us a series of patents for our Vector Segment fingerprint technology (VST), and our other core biometric analysis and identification technologies. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from misappropriation in the U.S. and abroad. Any patent issued to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. In jurisdictions where foreign laws provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the U.S. and abroad, our technology or other intellectual property may be compromised, and our business would be materially adversely affected. If any of our proprietary rights are misappropriated or we are forced to defend our intellectual property rights, we will have to incur substantial costs. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, including diverting the time and effort of our senior management, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We can provide no assurance that we will have the financial resources to oppose any actual or threatened infringement by any third party. Furthermore, any patent or copyrights that we may be granted may be held by a court to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and subject us to the payment of damage awards.. We may be subject to claims with respect to the infringement of intellectual property rights of others, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources.. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. We may violate the rights of others without our knowledge. We may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our customers against third party infringement claims. While we know of no basis for any claims of this type, the existence of and ownership of intellectual property can be difficult to verify and we have not made an exhaustive search of all patent filings. Additionally, most patent applications are kept confidential for twelve to eighteen months, or longer, and we would not be aware of potentially conflicting claims that they make. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternative technology or obtain other licenses. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims and be diverted from devoting time to our business and operational issues, regardless of the merits of any such claim.. In addition, in the event that we recruit employees from other technology companies, including certain potential competitors, and these employees are engaged in the development of portions of products which are similar to the development in which they were involved at their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees have improperly used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information. If any such claims were to arise in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution procedures might be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future services, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary damages, which may materially disrupt the conduct of our business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they could result in costly and time consuming litigation, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business.. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis, we may not be successful in the international expansion of our business.. Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the strength of our intellectual property portfolio. There can be no assurance that, as our business expands into new areas, we will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. To the extent that we have to rely on licensed technology from others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms we consider reasonable. The lack of a necessary license could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunction from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have a contractual or other legal obligation to indemnify them against damages resulting from infringement claims. With regard to our own intellectual property, we actively enforce and protect our rights. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our protected technology in international markets.. 10. We face inherent product liability or other liability risks that could result in large claims against us.. We have inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other liability claims resulting from the use of our products, especially to the extent customers may depend on our products in public safety situations that may involve physical harm or even death to individuals, as well as exposure to potential loss or damage to property. Despite quality control systems and inspection, there remains an ever-present risk of an accident resulting from a faulty manufacture or maintenance of products, or an act of an agent outside of our or our supplier’s control. Even if our products perform properly, we may become subject to claims and costly litigation due to the catastrophic nature of the potential injury and loss. A product liability claim, or other legal claims based on theories including personal injury or wrongful death, made against us could adversely affect operations and financial condition. Although we may have insurance to cover product liability claims, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient.. We expect that we will need to obtain additional financing to execute our business plan over the long-term, which may not be available. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate significant revenue, we may not be able to continue operations.. We have historically financed our operations through access to the capital markets by issuing secured and convertible debt securities, convertible preferred stock, common stock, and through factoring receivables. We currently require approximately $592,000 per month to conduct our operations and pay dividend obligations, a monthly amount that we have been unable to consistently achieve through revenue generation. During 2017, we generated approximately $6,303,000 of revenue, which is below our average monthly requirements. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to cover operating expenses and fund our business plan, we will need to obtain additional third-party financing to (i) conduct the sales, marketing and technical support necessary to execute our plan to substantially grow operations, increase revenue and serve a significant customer base; and (ii) provide working capital. We may, therefore, need to obtain additional financing through the issuance of debt or equity securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure any such additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot obtain such financing, we will not be able to execute our business plan, will be required to reduce operating expenses, and in the extreme case, discontinue operations.. We may not achieve sustainable profitability with respect to the biometric component of our business if we are unable to maintain, improve our offerings.. We believe that our future business prospects depend in part on our ability to maintain and improve our current services and to develop new ones on a timely basis. Our services will have to achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness, and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in our service offerings, major new wireless data services and service enhancements require long development and testing periods. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of new services and service enhancements. Additionally, our new services and service enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. If we cannot effectively develop and improve services, we may not be able to recover our fixed costs or otherwise become profitable.. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price.. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. If we do not properly manage our resources in response to these conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. As a technology company, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. 11. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. We have issued a substantial number of securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock which could result in substantial dilution to the ownership interests of our existing shareholders.. As of the date of this report, approximately 6,406,440 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise or conversion of outstanding stock options, convertible preferred stock, and warrants. Our Series A-1 and Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and certain warrants, contain “blocker provisions” which prohibit the conversion or exercise of such securities if such conversions would result in the holder of such securities beneficially owing in excess of 9.99% of our outstanding shares. The sole holder of shares of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock has increased the blocker provision cap to 34.99%, and subsequent year end a holder of our Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock has increased the blocker provision cap to 19.99%.  The exercise or conversion of these securities will result in a significant increase in the number of outstanding shares and substantially dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders.. The availability of a substantial number of shares of our common stock for public sale may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Our most recent registration statements, which were declared effective in January 2017, cover the public resale of 6,314,830 shares of our common stock, including 516,667 shares of common stock issued in our November 2016 private placement, 1,738,778 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock issued in our October 2015 and November 2015 private offerings, 2,916,667 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock issued in our November 2015 private offering, and 1,142,718 shares of common stock underlying warrants issued in our July 2013 and November 2014 private offerings. The shares of common stock being offered by the selling security holders represent approximately 82% of our outstanding shares. The availability of these shares for sale to the public, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, and the sale of such shares in the public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate.. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained.. Although our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market “Nasdaq”, an active trading market for our shares may not be developed and if developed, sustained. If an active market for our common stock is not developed or sustained, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares without depressing the market price for the shares or sell your shares at all. Any inactive trading market for our common stock may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund our operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration.. If we fail to comply with the continued minimum closing bid requirements of the Nasdaq or other requirements for continued listing, our Common Stock may be delisted and the price of our Common Stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted.. Our Common Stock is listed for trading on Nasdaq. We must satisfy Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, including, among other things, a minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. A delisting of our Common Stock from Nasdaq could materially reduce the liquidity of our Common Stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our Common Stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, employees and fewer business development opportunities.. We intend to raise additional funds in the future through issuances of securities and such additional funding may be dilutive to stockholders or impose operational restrictions.. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital in the future to help fund our operations through sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock, as well as issuances of debt. Such additional financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, and may involve restrictive covenants which may limit our operating flexibility. If additional capital is raised through the issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock, the percentage ownership of existing stockholders will be reduced. These stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share and any additional equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock.. Because we do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our shares of common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock accrues dividends at the rate of 6% per annum payable quarterly on April 1, July 1, October 1 and January 1 of each year, in cash or kind through the issuance of additional shares of common stock. Our Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock accrues dividends at the rate of 2.5% per annum payable quarterly on April 1, July, 1, October 1, and January 1 of each year payable in cash. Following the payment of dividends on our Series A-1 and B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, we currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase shares of our common stock.. 12. Our share ownership is highly concentrated which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders, beneficially own approximately 47% of our common stock and will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover of our Company more difficult.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (\"DGCL\") could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an \"interested stockholder\") for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our board of directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting. Delaware law and our charter may, therefore, inhibit a takeover.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our shares has from time to time fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including the risk factors set forth in this prospectus as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements of innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the biometrics and access control industries, and other events or factors. We cannot assure you that any of the broker-dealers that currently make a market in our common stock will continue to serve as market makers or have the financial capability to stabilize or support our common stock. A reduction in the number of market makers or the financial capability of any of these market makers could also result in a decrease in the trading volume of and price of our shares. In recent years broad stock market indices, in general, and the securities of technology companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the future-trading price of our common stock."      
