[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our operating results may fluctuate adversely as a result of many factors that are outside our control, which may negatively impact our stock price.. Fluctuations in our operating results, for any reason, could cause our growth or operating results to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts.. We base the scope of our operations and related expenses on our estimates of future revenues. A significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, and we may not be able to rapidly adjust our expenses if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Our revenue estimates for future periods are based, among other factors, on estimated end-user demand for our products. If end-user consumption is less than estimated, revenues from our distribution partners and other distribution channels would be expected to fall short of expectations, and because such a significant portion of our costs are fixed, could result in operating losses.. Factors that are beyond our control and that could affect our operating results in the future include:. <U+0095>      regulatory clearance. <U+0095>      changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if one of our competitors introduced a new, better performing or lower priced product to compete with one or more of our products;. <U+0095>      changes in the reimbursement systems or reimbursement amounts that end-users may rely upon in choosing to use our products;. <U+0095>      changes in economic conditions in our domestic and international markets, such as economic downturns, decreased healthcare spending, reduced consumer demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; changes in government laws and regulations affecting our business;. <U+0095>      lower than anticipated market penetration of our new or more recently introduced products;. <U+0095>      significant quantities of our product or that of our competitors in our distributors' inventories or distribution channels;. <U+0095>      changes in distributor buying patterns; and. <U+0095>      changes in the healthcare market including consolidation in our customer base.. 8. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, obtain and protect our proprietary technology rights; otherwise, we may lose market share or need to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling technologically superior products that compete with our products.. Our ability to compete successfully in the diagnostic market depends on continued development and introduction of new products, technology and the improvement of existing technology. If we cannot continue to improve upon or develop, obtain and protect our technology, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our competitive position is heavily dependent on obtaining and protecting our own proprietary technology or obtaining licenses from others. Our ability to obtain patents and licenses, and their benefits, is uncertain.. The Company is required to obtain certification in the European community to sell products in those countries.  There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its certification in the future.. Since a large part of the Company's sales are to distributors in Europe, the loss of this certification could materially adversely affect the results of the Company.. The Company has a significant investment in its manufacturing facility in Mexico through its subsidiary, Biomerica de Mexico.  There is significant risk in operating facilities in a foreign country and there is the possibility that there may be costs involved with this that we cannot foresee at this time.. We use hazardous materials in our research and production that may result in unexpected and substantial claims against us relating to handling, storage or disposal.. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completed eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed the resources of the Company.  The Company may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations.. If any governmental authorities were to impose new environmental regulations requiring compliance in addition to that required by existing regulations, or alter their interpretation of the requirements of such existing regulations, such environmental regulations could impair our research, development or production efforts by imposing additional, and possibly substantial, costs, restrictions or compliance procedures on our business. In addition, because of the nature of the penalties provided for in some of these environmental regulations, we could be required to pay sizable fines, penalties or damages in the event of noncompliance with environmental laws. Any environmental violation or remediation requirement could also partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated and exposure of individuals to these materials could result in substantial fines, penalties or damages that are not covered by insurance.. In order to remain competitive, we must expend considerable resources to research new technologies and products and develop new markets, and there is no assurance our efforts to develop new technologies, products or markets will be successful or such technologies, products or markets will be commercially viable.. We devote a significant amount of financial and other resources to researching and developing new technologies, new products and new markets. The development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products require a significant investment of resources. The development of new markets also requires a substantial investment of resources, such as new employees, offices and manufacturing facilities. No assurances can be given that our efforts to develop new technologies or products will be successful, that such technologies and products will be commercially viable, or our expansion into new markets will be profitable.. There is also no guarantee that our new IBS products will get approval and be well accepted into the marketplace.. 9. Our operations will be adversely affected if our operating results do not correspondingly increase with our increased expenditures or if our technology, product and market development efforts are unsuccessful or delayed. Furthermore, our failure to successfully introduce new technologies or products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. We rely on a limited number of key distributors that account for a substantial majority of our total revenue. The loss of any key distributor or an unsuccessful effort by us to directly distribute our products could lead to reduced sales.. As of the years ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company had one distributor which accounted for 43.3% and 45.2%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. As of May 31, 2018, the Company had one customer who accounted for 53.3% of gross accounts receivable.  As of May 31, 2017, the Company had two customers who accounted for 54.2% of gross accounts receivable. The loss of these sales could adversely impact the results of the Company.  In addition, the loss of the accounts receivable could negatively impact the Company. In addition, the Company has key distributors in Europe, the loss of which could adversely impact sales and results.. If we are not able to manage our growth strategy our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business strategy contemplates further growth, which would likely result in expanding the scope of operating and financial systems and the geographical area of our operations, including further expansion outside the U.S., as new products and technologies are developed and commercialized or new geographical markets are entered. Because we have a small executive staff, acquisitions and other future growth may divert management's attention from other aspects of our business, and place a strain on existing management and our operational, financial and management information systems. Furthermore, we may expand into markets in which we have less experience or incur higher costs.. Intellectual property risks and third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or attempt to seek licenses from third parties, and materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management and other key employees.. Companies in or related to our industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are often intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost or upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to be part of such new or existing products.. We have hired and will continue to hire individuals or contractors who have experience in medical diagnostics and these individuals or contractors may have confidential trade secret or proprietary information of third parties. We cannot assure you that these individuals or contractors will not use this third-party information in connection with performing services for us or otherwise reveal this third-party information to us. Thus, we could be sued for misappropriation of proprietary information and trade secrets. Such claims are expensive to defend and could divert our attention and result in substantial damage awards and injunctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to the extent that individuals or contractors apply technical or scientific information independently developed by them to our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such data and may result in litigation.. The defense and prosecution of patent and trade secret claims are both costly and time consuming. We or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated their proprietary rights or that may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved with such products may perform for us, increase our costs and expose us to significant liability.. As a general matter, our involvement in litigation or in any claims to determine proprietary rights, as may arise from time to time, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for reasons such as:. <U+0095>       pending litigation may of itself cause our distributors or end-users to reduce or terminate purchases of our products;. <U+0095>       it may consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources;. <U+0095>      its outcome would be uncertain and a court may find any third-party patent claims valid and infringed by our products (issuing a preliminary or permanent injunction) that would require us to procure costly licensing arrangements from third parties or withdraw or recall such products from the market, redesign such products offered for sale or under development or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise;. <U+0095>       governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and us relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party's proprietary rights;. <U+0095>      an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive damages, the opposing party's attorneys' fees, and future royalty payments significantly affecting our future earnings; and. <U+0095>       failure to obtain a necessary license (upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all) upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop.. 10. In addition to the foregoing, we may also be required to indemnify some customers, distributors and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another person's proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs, which could have adverse consequences on our operations and the interests of our stockholders.. We may need to seek to raise funds through public or private debt or sale of equity to achieve our business strategy. If we raise funds or acquire other technologies or businesses through issuance of equity, this could dilute the interests of our stockholders. Moreover, the availability of additional capital, whether debt or equity from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and industry or market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources on favorable terms, if at all. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital.. Our inability to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts.. Costs related to development projects and approvals are hard to estimate due to factors that are unknown to us at this time. These costs could be much higher than anticipated and current operations may not be able to cover these costs.. Clinical trials involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. There is no assurance that the results of the clinical trials will be positive.  A negative clinical trial could effect our ability to obtain regulatory clearances and/or potential licensing partners.. Our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected by the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.. If our customers' or suppliers' operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms or reduce or terminate production of products they supply to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored and private payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their healthcare expenditures by renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored or private payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs.. We may not achieve market acceptance of our new products among healthcare providers and physicians, and this would have a negative effect on future sales.. The Company is developing certain products, the acceptance of which in the medical community is unpredictable at this time. In addition, the Company will need to spend considerable funds in order to introduce the products into the marketplace.. 11. The industry and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and intense competition with other providers of diagnostic products may reduce our sales and margins.. Our diagnostic tests compete with similar products made by our competitors. There are a large number of multinational and regional competitors making investments in competing technologies and products. We also face competition from our distributors as some have created, and others may decide to create, their own products to compete with ours. A number of our competitors have a potential competitive advantage because they have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. Moreover, some competitors offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have. If our competitors' products are more effective than ours or take market share from our products through more effective marketing or competitive pricing, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets over the last few years. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation may continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations.. Our business and products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals or clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or other changes to the existing laws and regulations that adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products.. The testing, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. Our future performance depends on, among other matters, if, when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval for new products. Regulatory review can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of clearances and approvals difficult to predict. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals or clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances or the placement of limits on the marketing and use of our products.. Changes in government policy could adversely affect our business and potential profitability.. Changes in government policy could have a significant impact on our business by increasing the cost of doing business, affecting our ability to sell our products and negatively impacting our profitability. Such changes could include modifications to existing legislation, such as U.S. tax policy, or entirely new legislation, such as the Affordable Healthcare Act (\"AHA\") in the U.S. Although we cannot fully predict the many ways that healthcare reform might affect our business. It is unclear whether and to what extent, if at all, other anticipated developments, including changes due to new presidential administration priorities, or changes resulting from healthcare reform, such as a change in the number of people with health insurance, may impact us.. We are subject to numerous government regulations in addition to FDA regulation, and compliance with laws, including changed or new laws, could increase our costs and adversely affect our operations.  There is also the risk that our facilities could fail to get the proper licensing at our next inspection or renewal.. In addition to FDA and other regulations referred to above, numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, data privacy, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances impact our business operations. If these laws or their interpretation change or new laws regulating any of our businesses are adopted, the costs of compliance with these laws could substantially increase our overall costs. Failure to comply with any laws, including laws regulating the manufacture and marketing of our products, could result in substantial costs and loss of sales or customers. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of future legislation or regulatory developments relating to our industry and our products. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with meeting new or changing requirements are substantial, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 12. Our total revenue could be affected by third-party reimbursement policies and potential cost constraints.. The end-users of our products are primarily physicians and other healthcare providers. In the U.S., healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payers, principally private health insurance plans, federal Medicare and state Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. Use of our products would be adversely impacted if physicians and other healthcare providers do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products by their patients' third-party payers. Our total revenue could also be adversely affected by changes or trends in reimbursement policies of these governmental or private healthcare payers. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the U.S. in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the U.S. or foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may reduce the demand for our products or adversely impact our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis.. Unexpected increases in, or inability to meet, demand for our products could require us to spend considerable resources to meet the demand or harm our reputation and customer relationships if we are unable to meet demand.. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products, whether as a result of manufacturing problems or supply shortfalls, could harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. In addition, our product manufacturing of certain product lines is concentrated in one or more of our manufacturing sites. Weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), fires, terrorism, political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we experience unexpected increases in the demand for our products, we may be required to expend additional capital resources to meet these demands. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or even the cost of new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash resources. If we are unable to develop or obtain necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our total revenue could be adversely affected. Failure to cost-effectively increase production volumes, if required, or lower than anticipated yields or production problems, including those encountered as a result of changes that we may make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand or changes in applicable laws and regulations, could result in shipment delays as well as increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Unexpected increases in demand for our products could also require us to obtain additional raw materials in order to manufacture products to meet the demand. Some raw materials require significant ordering lead time and we may not be able to timely access sufficient raw materials in the event of an unexpected increase in demand, particularly those obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers.. If one or more of our products is claimed to be defective, we could be subject to claims of liability and harm to our reputation that could adversely affect our business.. A claim of a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial conditions and the damage to our reputation or product lines in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to business risks which, if not covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims brought against us are successful, we could incur substantial liabilities.. We face a number of business risks, including exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain insurance for a number of these risks, we may face claims for types of damages, or for amounts of damages, that are not covered by our insurance. For example, although we currently carry product liability insurance for liability losses, there is a risk that product liability or other claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. Also, our existing insurance may not be renewed at the same cost and level of coverage as currently in effect, or may not be renewed at all. Further, we do not currently have insurance against many environmental risks we confront in our business. If we are held liable for a claim against which we are not insured or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, whether arising out of product liability matters, cybersecurity matters, or from some other matter, that claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 13. We may rely on third parties to conduct or be part of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to seek or obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We rely on third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, Universities/clinical sites or software companies (\"Vendors\"),  we are working to coordinate and monitor the conduct of our clinical trials and to manage data for our clinical programs. We, our Vendors, and our clinical sites are required to comply with current Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, regulations and guidelines issued by the FDA and by similar governmental authorities in other countries where we are conducting clinical trials. We have an ongoing obligation to monitor the activities conducted by our Vendors and at our clinical sites to confirm compliance with these requirements. In the future, if we, our Vendors or our clinical sites fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. If our Vendors do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed.. Failures in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs.. We utilize complex information technology systems to support our business and store information. We cannot be sure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that necessary upgrades will operate as designed, which could result in excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business. In particular, any disruptions, delays or deficiencies caused by our enterprise resource planning system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, information technology systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts, terrorism and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, could result in a material disruption in our operations. Furthermore, to the extent that any disruption or security breach resulted in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could face a variety of negative consequences, including regulatory actions or litigation, fines or penalties, adverse publicity, increased cybersecurity protection costs, and lost revenue.. Our business could be negatively affected by the loss of or the inability to hire key personnel.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our key technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, both in the industry in which we operate and where our operations are located. Further, we expect to grow our operations, and our needs for additional management and other key personnel are expected to increase. If we are not able to retain existing key personnel, or timely identify and hire replacement or additional qualified personnel to meet expected growth, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operation or strategic objectives.. We face risks relating to our international sales, including inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our growth strategy.. Our products are primarily sold internationally, with the majority of our international sales to our distributors in Asia and Europe. We currently sell and market our products through distributor organizations and sales agents. These foreign risks include, among others:. 14. <U+0095>      compliance with multiple different registration requirements and new and changing registration requirements, our inability to benefit from registration for our products inasmuch as registrations may be controlled by a distributor, and the difficulty in transitioning our product registrations;. <U+0095>      compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including U.S. laws such as import/export limitations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws.. <U+0095>      tariffs or other barriers as we continue to expand into new countries and geographic regions;. <U+0095>      exposure to currency exchange fluctuations against the U.S. dollar;. <U+0095>      longer payment cycles, generally lower average selling prices and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection;. <U+0095>      reduced, or lack of, protection for, and enforcement of, intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>      political and economic instability in some of the regions where we currently sell our products or that we may expand into in the future;. <U+0095>      complex and potentially adverse tax consequences; and. <U+0095>      diversion to the U.S. of our products sold into international markets at lower prices.. Currently, all of our international sales are negotiated for and paid in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, these sales are subject to currency risks, since changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In order to maintain a competitive price for our products internationally, we may have to continue to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold internationally. Continued change in the values of the Euro, the Mexican peso and other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we have certain supply agreements with foreign vendors whereby we share the foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We may, in the future, enter into similar arrangements.. Sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of our securities.. We may need to seek additional capital. If this additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities, debt convertible into equity or options or warrants to acquire equity securities, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution upon the issuance, conversion or exercise of such securities.. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or issuances of additional securities, could dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders and could depress the market price of shares of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock.. We also have a number of stockholders who own large blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock could be negatively affected.. The price of our stock may fluctuate unpredictably in response to factors unrelated to our operating performance.. The stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. In particular, the market price of securities of smaller medical device companies, like ours, has been very unpredictable and may vary in response to:. <U+0095>      announcements by us or our competitors concerning technological innovations;. <U+0095>      introductions of new products;. <U+0095>      FDA and foreign regulatory actions;. <U+0095>      developments or disputes relating to patents or proprietary rights;. <U+0095>      failure to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;. <U+0095>      changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock;. <U+0095>      changes in healthcare policy in the U.S. or other countries; and. <U+0095>      general stock market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance.. A sale of a substantial number of shares of the common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. 15. Trading of our common stock is not significant, therefore sales of a larger volume of the stock could adversely affect the stock price. As of August 26, 2016, the Company's stock has been traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market.  Trading of the Company's stock is limited and liquidation of the Company's stock may be difficult as there is a limited market for the Company's stock.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards in the future may be subject to limitation.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business."
