[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, or if we are unable to provide adequate security in the electronic transmission of sensitive data, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are highly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to securely process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this infrastructure, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, including non-public personal information, consumer data and proprietary business information. Cyber-based attacks against financial institutions to extort payment in return for the release of sensitive information are increasing. Unauthorized access, including through use of fraudulent schemes such as \"phishing\" schemes, could jeopardize the security of information stored in our systems. In addition, malware or viruses could jeopardize the security of information stored or used in a user's computer. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss, lawsuits and regulatory imposed restrictions and penalties because of lost or misappropriated information, including sensitive consumer data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, our clients are increasingly imposing more stringent contractual obligations on us relating to our information security protections. If we are unable to maintain protections and processes at a level commensurate with that required by our large clients, it could negatively affect our relationships with those clients, increase our operating or litigation costs or subject us to liability under those contractual obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. We rely on our top clients for a significant portion of our revenues and profits, which makes us susceptible to the same macro-economic and regulatory factors that affect our clients. If these clients are negatively affected by current economic or regulatory conditions or otherwise experience financial hardship or stress, or if the terms of our relationships with these clients change, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our clients are in a consolidated industry and, as a result, a small number of our clients have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. We expect that a limited number of our clients will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The significant portion or our revenues that a limited number of our clients currently represent may increase in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2017, our largest client, Wells Fargo, N.A., or Wells Fargo, accounted for approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues and approximately 14% and 1% of the revenues from our Software Solutions and Data and Analytics segments, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2017, our five largest clients accounted for approximately 35% of our consolidated revenues, approximately 38% of our Software Solutions segment revenues and approximately 17% of our Data and Analytics segment revenues.. Our clients face continued pressure in the current economic and regulatory climate. Many of our relationships with these clients are long-standing and are important to our business and results of operations, but there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements or maintain our relationships on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, we rely on cross-selling our products and services to our existing clients as a source of growth. The deterioration in or termination of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may be disproportionately affected by declining revenues from, or loss of, a significant client. In addition, by virtue of their significant relationships with us, these clients may be able to exert pressure on us with respect to the pricing of our services.. The time and expense associated with switching from our competitors' software and services to ours may limit our growth.. The costs for a mortgage lender or servicer to switch providers of software, data and analytics solutions and services can be significant and the process can take 12 to 18 months to complete, or longer. As a result, potential clients may decide that it is not worth the time and expense to begin using our solutions and services, even if we offer competitive and economic advantages. If we are unable to convince these potential clients to switch to our software and services, our ability to increase market share will be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We typically provide service level commitments under our client contracts. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide credits or refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services or face contract terminations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our client agreements typically provide service level commitments measured on a daily and monthly basis. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our applications, we may be contractually obligated to provide these clients with service credits or refunds or we could face contract terminations. If we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our clients or if we experience any extended service outages, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our clients and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Once our applications and software are deployed, our clients depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating thereto. We may be unable to respond adequately to accommodate short-term increases in client demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Increased client demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our applications and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing clients. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Our clients and we are subject to various governmental regulations, and a failure to comply with governmental regulations or changes in these regulations, including changes that may result from changes in the political landscape, could result in penalties, restrict or limit our or our clients' operations or make it more burdensome to conduct such operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of our clients' and our businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could restrict our ability to provide certain services or result in imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties, substantial regulatory and compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity and loss of revenues.. As a provider of electronic data processing to financial institutions, such as banks and credit unions, we are subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the FFIEC, an interagency body of the FRB, the CFPB, the OCC, the FDIC and various other federal and state regulatory authorities. We also may be subject to possible review by state agencies that regulate banks in each state in which we conduct our electronic processing activities.. In addition, our businesses are subject to an increased degree of compliance oversight by regulators and by our clients. Specifically, the CFPB has authority to write rules affecting the business of, supervise, conduct examinations of, and enforce compliance as to federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations with respect to certain \"non-depository covered persons\" determined by the CFPB to be \"larger participants\" that offer consumer financial products and services. The CFPB and the prudential financial institution regulators such as the OCC also have the authority to examine us in our role as a service provider to large financial institutions. In addition, we believe some of our largest bank clients' regulators are requiring the banks to exercise greater oversight and perform more rigorous audits of their key vendors such as us.. The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (\"RESPA\") and related regulations generally prohibit the payment or receipt of fees or any other item of value for the referral of real estate-related settlement services. RESPA also prohibits fee shares or splits or unearned fees in connection with the provision of residential real estate settlement services, such as mortgage brokerage and real estate brokerage. Notwithstanding these prohibitions, RESPA permits payments for goods furnished or for services actually performed, so long as those payments bear a reasonable relationship to the market value of the goods or services provided. RESPA and related regulations may to some extent restrict our real estate-related businesses from entering into certain preferred alliance arrangements. The CFPB is responsible for enforcing RESPA.. Changes to laws and regulations and regulatory oversight of our clients and us, including those that may result from changes in the political landscape, may cause us to increase our prices in certain situations or decrease our prices in other situations, may restrict our ability to implement price increases or otherwise limit the manner in which we conduct our business. We may also incur additional expense in keeping our software solutions services up to date as laws and regulations change, and we may not be able to pass those additional costs on to our clients. In addition, in response to increased regulatory oversight, participants in the mortgage lending industry may develop policies pursuant to which they limit the extent to which they can rely on any one vendor or service provider. Conversely, in an environment with less stringent regulatory oversight, prospective clients may choose to retain their in-house platforms, or current service providers, or seek alternative service providers who provide services that are less compliance and quality oriented at a lower price point. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to conform to the new laws and regulations, or if these laws and regulations have a negative effect on our clients, we may experience client losses or increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There may be consolidation in our end client market, which could reduce the use of our services by our clients and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consolidations among existing or potential clients could reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. If our clients merge with, are acquired by or sell their servicing portfolios to other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. In addition, if potential clients merge, our ability to increase our client base may be adversely affected and the ability of our customers to exert pressure on our pricing may increase. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory developments with respect to use of consumer data and public records could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because our databases include certain public and non-public personal information concerning consumers, we are subject to government regulation and potential adverse publicity concerning our use of consumer data. We acquire, store, use and provide many types of consumer data and related services that are subject to regulation under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Driver's Privacy Protection Act and, to a lesser extent, various other federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are designed to protect the privacy of consumers and to prevent security breaches, other unauthorized access and misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Our failure to comply with these laws, or any future laws or regulations of a similar nature, could result in substantial regulatory penalties, litigation expense and loss of revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, some of our data suppliers face similar regulatory requirements and, consequently, they may cease to be able to provide data to us or may substantially increase the fees they charge us for this data, which may make it financially burdensome or impossible for us to acquire data that is necessary to offer our products and services. Further, many consumer advocates, privacy advocates and government regulators believe that existing laws and regulations do not adequately protect privacy or ensure the accuracy of consumer-related data. As a result, they are seeking further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial use of personal information to the public and private sectors as well as contemplating requirements relative to data accuracy and the ability of consumers to opt to have their personal data removed from databases such as ours. Any future laws, regulations or other restrictions limiting the dissemination or use of personal information may reduce the quality and availability of our solutions and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Participants in the mortgage industry are subject to efforts by the government to reform the mortgage industry or address the mortgage market and current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The mortgage industry continues to be subject to review by governmental authorities, judges and the news media, among others. Inquiries may include federal and state governmental review of all aspects of the mortgage lending business, and several actions to aid the housing market and the economy in general, and to implement more rigorous standards around mortgage servicing.. Additional state and federal government actions directed at housing and the mortgage industry may occur and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our clients' relationships with GSEs are subject to change, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our clients have significant relationships with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are GSEs, tasked with working with financial institutions to provide liquidity to the mortgage market. They do this by purchasing loans from the lenders either for cash or in exchange for mortgage-backed securities that are backed by those loans and that, for a fee, carries the GSEs guarantee of timely payment of interest and principal to investors of those mortgage-backed securities. Because our clients service the loans owned by GSEs, we provide solutions and services for many of those loans. As a result of these relationships, GSEs have been able to implement changes to our pricing structure on certain products and services we provide. GSEs or other governmental agencies may be able to exert similar pressure on the pricing of our solutions and services in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to adapt our solutions to technological changes or evolving industry standards, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients and have difficulty attracting new clients for our solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The markets for our solutions are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards and regulations. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to successfully enhance our current solutions, and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new product or service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance issues. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions and services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these solutions and services or that our new solutions and services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If our efforts are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a competitive business environment and, if we are unable to compete effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The markets for our solutions are intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial resources. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, because many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key processing applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. As a result, gaining new clients in our mortgage processing business can be difficult. For banks and other potential clients, switching from an internally designed system to an outside vendor, or from one vendor of mortgage processing services to a new vendor, is a significant undertaking. These potential clients worry about potential disadvantages such as loss of custom functionality, increased costs and business disruption. As a result, these potential clients often resist change. There can be. 14. Table of Contents. no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential clients' reluctance to change will be successful, and if we are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information increases, the demand for some of our data and information solutions may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become increasingly available recently, particularly through the Internet, and this trend is expected to continue. Governmental agencies in particular have increased the amount of information to which they provide free public access. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for, or the price that clients are willing to pay for, our data and information solutions. To the extent that clients choose not to obtain data and information from us and instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public sources, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely upon proprietary technology and information rights, and if we are unable to protect our rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, upon our intellectual property rights. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademark laws and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying, distribution and creation of derivative products to protect our proprietary technology and information. This protection is limited, and our intellectual property could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any infringement, disclosure, loss, invalidity of or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could be time-consuming, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could:. • be expensive and time-consuming to defend;. • cause us to cease providing solutions that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • require us to redesign our solutions, if feasible;. • divert management's attention and resources; and. • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies.. Any one or more of the foregoing outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may be liable for damages for past infringement if a court determines that our software or technologies infringe upon a third party's patent or other proprietary rights.. If we are unable to successfully consummate acquisitions or experience delays in integrating acquisitions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. One of our strategies to grow our business is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses, technologies and services. This strategy will depend on our ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. We may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our substantial debt. Raising additional capital for acquisitions through debt financing could result in increased interest expense and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional capital for acquisitions through equity financing, the ownership interests of existing shareholders will be diluted.. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Further, we may face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. Additionally, the acquisition and integration processes may disrupt our business and divert management attention and our resources. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies and personnel, it could impair relationships with employees, clients and strategic partners, distract management attention from our core businesses, result in control failures and otherwise disrupt our ongoing business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may not be able to retain key management. 15. Table of Contents. and other critical employees after an acquisition. In addition, we may be required to record future charges for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from such acquisitions.. Our profitability may be affected by gains or losses on any sales of businesses, or lost operating income or cash flows from such businesses. We also may be required to record asset impairment or restructuring charges related to divested businesses, or indemnify buyers for liabilities, which may reduce our profitability and cash flows. We may also be unable to negotiate such divestitures on terms acceptable to us. If we are unsuccessful in divesting such businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reliance on third parties subjects us to risk and may disrupt or adversely affect our operations. In addition, we may not realize the full benefit of our third-party arrangements, which may result in increased costs, or may adversely affect the service levels we are able to provide our clients.. We rely upon third parties for various business process and information technology services, including information security testing, telecommunications and software code development. Although we have contractual provisions with our providers that specify performance requirements, we do not ultimately control their performance, which may make our operations vulnerable to their performance failures. In addition, our failure to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third-party vendors could subject us to additional risk. Reliance on third parties also makes us vulnerable to changes in our vendors' businesses, financial condition and other matters outside of our control, including their violations of laws or regulations, which could increase our exposure to liability or otherwise increase the costs associated with the operation of our business. The failure of our providers to perform as expected or as contractually required could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations and to the services we provide to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our ability to access data from external sources to maintain and grow our businesses. If we are unable to access needed data from these sources or if the prices charged for these services increase, the quality, pricing and availability of our solutions may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely extensively upon data from a variety of external sources to maintain our proprietary and non-proprietary databases, including data from third-party suppliers, various government and public record sources and data contributed by our clients. Our data sources could cease providing or reduce the availability of their data to us, increase the price we pay for their data or limit our use of their data for a variety of reasons, including legislatively or judicially imposed restrictions on use. If a number of suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data, or if our public record sources of data become unavailable or too expensive, we may need to find alternative sources. If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and efficiently and effectively integrate these data sources into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services. Moreover, some of our suppliers compete with us in certain product offerings, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases from them. Significant price increases could require us to seek substitute sources of data on more favorable economic terms, which may not be available at all. Loss of such access or the availability of data in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all may reduce the quality and availability of our services and solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international third-party service providers and our own international operations subject us to additional risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Over the last few years, we have sought to reduce our costs by utilizing lower-cost labor outside the United States in countries such as India. These countries may be subject to higher degrees of political and social instability than the United States and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can affect our ability to deliver our solutions on a timely basis, if at all, and to a lesser extent can decrease efficiency and increase our costs. Weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies used and higher inflation rates experienced in these countries may also reduce anticipated savings. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, many of our clients may require us to use labor based in the United States. We may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced United States-based labor to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the foreign countries in which we have outsourcing arrangements or operate could adopt new legislation or regulations that could make it difficult, more costly or impossible for us to continue our foreign activities as currently being conducted. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") or other local anti-corruption laws. Any violations of FCPA or local anti-corruption laws by us or our subsidiaries, could result in substantial financial and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and an economic downturn or troubled mortgage market could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Goodwill recorded on our balance sheet was approximately $2.3 billion, or approximately 63% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2017. Other intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet were approximately $231.6 million, or approximately 6% of our total assets. Current accounting rules require that goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Current accounting rules require that intangible assets with finite useful lives be assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Factors that may indicate the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future results of operations, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. No goodwill or other intangible assets impairment charge was recorded during 2017. However, if there is an economic downturn in the future, the carrying amount of our goodwill or other intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization and the effect of the economy to determine if there is an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets in future periods.. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to our ability to achieve widespread acceptance of our software solutions and attract new clients. Brand promotion activities may not generate client awareness or increase revenues, and even if they do, any increase in revenues may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain clients necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad client adoption of our applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience system failures with respect to our software solutions, damage or interruption that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability.. We depend heavily upon the computer systems and our existing technology infrastructure located in our data centers and certain systems interruptions or events beyond our control could interrupt or terminate the delivery of our solutions and services to our clients and may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide necessary data to us and our employees' ability to attend to work and perform their responsibilities.. These potential interruptions include, but are not limited to, damage or interruption from hurricanes, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications outages, cyber-based attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors and similar events. Our U.S. corporate offices and one of our data centers are located in Jacksonville, Florida, which is an area that is at high risk of hurricane and flood damage. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. The servers that we use through various third-party service providers may also be vulnerable to similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays and loss of critical data. Such service providers may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, and our insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.. Defects in our software solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in:. • interruption of business operations;. • delay in market acceptance;. • us, or our clients, missing a regulatory deadline;. • additional development and remediation costs;. • diversion of technical and other resources;. • loss of clients;. • negative publicity; or. • exposure to liability claims.. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability.. 17. Table of Contents. We may experience delays or difficulty in developing or implementing new, enhanced or existing software or hosting solutions, which may negatively affect our relationships with existing and potential clients, reduce or delay the generation of revenues or increase development and implementation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial performance depends upon the successful development, implementation and client acceptance of new, existing and enhanced versions of our software and hosting solutions. We continually seek to develop enhancements to our solutions, including updates in response to changes in applicable laws, as well as new offerings to supplement our existing solutions. As a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in the development and integration of new technologies, including defects or undetected errors in our software solutions, difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients, or other unanticipated performance, stability and compatibility problems. Any of these problems could result in material delays in the introduction or acceptance of our solutions, increased costs, decreased client satisfaction, breach of contract claims, harm to our industry reputation and reduced or delayed revenues. If we are unable to implement existing solutions or deliver new solutions or upgrades or other enhancements to our existing solutions on a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, as a significant focus of our sales efforts is on the top U.S. mortgage originators and servicers, larger clients may demand more complex integration, implementation services and features, which may result in implementations that take longer than we forecast or delays in these clients using our solutions. Furthermore, if implementations take longer than planned or these clients delay their use of our solutions, we may be required to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met and may not generate revenues from these clients as quickly as we had forecast.. Because our revenues from clients in the mortgage lending industry are affected by the strength of the economy and the housing market generally, including the volume of real estate transactions, a change in any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our revenues are primarily generated from software, data and analytics we provide to the mortgage industry and, as a result, a weak economy or housing market may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The volume of mortgage origination and residential real estate transactions is highly variable and reductions in these transaction volumes could have a direct effect on the revenues we generate from our software solutions business and some of our data and analytics businesses.. The revenues we generate from our servicing software solutions primarily depend upon the total number of mortgage loans processed on MSP, which tends to be comparatively consistent regardless of economic conditions. However, in the event that a difficult economy or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the number of mortgage loans outstanding and we are not able to counter the effect of those events with increased market share or higher fees, our MSP revenues could be adversely affected. Moreover, negative economic conditions, including increased unemployment or interest rates or a downturn in other general economic factors, among other things, could adversely affect the performance and financial condition of some of our clients in many of our businesses, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if these clients go bankrupt or otherwise exit certain businesses.. A weaker economy and housing market tend to increase the volume of consumer mortgage defaults, which can increase revenues from our applications focused on supporting default management functions. However, government regulation of the mortgage industry in general, and the default and foreclosure process in particular, has greatly slowed the processing of defaulted mortgages and has changed the way many of our clients address mortgage loans in default. A downturn in the origination market and a concurrent slowdown or change in the way mortgage loans in default are addressed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our indebtedness could have a negative effect on our financing options and liquidity position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:. • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business, which may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and may limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies;. • requiring us to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on our debt, which could reduce the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as $1.4 billion in principal amount of our debt bears interest at a floating rate as of December 31, 2017 (an increase of one percentage point in the applicable interest rate could cause an increase in interest expense of approximately $14.5 million on an annual basis ($6.5 million including the effect. 18. Table of Contents. of our current interest rate swaps) based on the principal outstanding as of December 31, 2017, which may make it more difficult for us to service our debt);. • exposing us to costs and risks associated with agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, as such agreements may not offer complete protection from these risks, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of the counterparties to these agreements may fail to satisfy their obligations under such agreements; and. • causing a competitive disadvantage if we have higher levels of debt than our competitors by reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition.. Risks associated with our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Despite our indebtedness level, we still may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our existing indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the Credit Agreement, as amended, governing the Facilities, as described in Note 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our outstanding debt levels, the risks related to our indebtedness that we will face could increase.. Certain of our financing arrangements subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility.. The Credit Agreement, as amended, governing the Facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities, and future debt instruments may as well. These restrictions include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio, and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:. • create, incur or assume any additional debt and issue preferred stock;. • create, incur or assume certain liens;. • redeem and/or prepay certain subordinated debt we might issue in the future;. • pay dividends on our stock or repurchase stock;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • enter into or permit to exit contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;. • enter new lines of business;. • engage in mergers and acquisitions;. • engage in specified sales of assets; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could limit our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and results of operations, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our outstanding debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our risk management policies and procedures may prove inadequate for the risks we face, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. If our solutions change and as the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management strategies may not always adapt to such changes. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management's judgment. Other of our methods of managing risk depend on the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, catastrophe occurrence or. 19. Table of Contents. other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures or available information indicate. In addition, management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify large numbers of transactions and events, which may not be fully effective. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators.. Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts.. We are party to a variety of related party agreements and relationships with FNF, certain of FNF's subsidiaries and THL. One of our executive officers is employed by FNF and certain of our directors serve on the boards of directors of FNF or are affiliated with THL. As a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where one of our executive officers and certain directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our ongoing relationships with FNF, FNF's subsidiaries or THL, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms associated with services that we provide to FNF or its subsidiaries, or that they provide to us, under related party agreements; (iii) business opportunities arising for any of us, FNF, FNF's subsidiaries or THL; and (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us.. We have in place a code of business conduct and ethics prescribing procedures for managing conflicts of interest and our chief compliance officer and audit committee are responsible for the review, approval, or ratification of any potential conflicts of interest transactions. Additionally, we expect that interested directors will abstain from decisions with respect to conflicts of interest as a matter of practice. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party.. Our senior leadership team is critical to our continued success and the loss of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future success substantially depends on the continued service and performance of the members of our senior leadership team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. We have attempted to mitigate this risk by entering into long-term (two to three year) employment contracts with the members of our senior management operating team and providing long-term incentive compensation with multi-year vesting provisions. We have announced that Anthony Jabbour will assume the role as our Chief Executive Officer (\"CEO\") on April 1, 2018, and current CEO Thomas Sanzone will become our Vice Chairman of the Board and will assist with the transition. If we lose key members of our senior management operating team or are unable to effect smooth transitions from one executive to another as part of our succession plan, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations or meet ongoing and future business challenges, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients.. Our business relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies, and there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through our current recruiting and retention policies. Increased competition for employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs.. We may not be able to effectively achieve our growth strategies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth strategies depend in part on maintaining our competitive advantage with current solutions in new and existing markets, as well as our ability to develop new technologies and solutions to serve such markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in new markets or continue to compete effectively in our existing markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies or solutions effectively or on a timely basis, or if we are not successful in introducing or obtaining regulatory or market acceptance for new solutions, we may lose market share and our results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. Current and future litigation, investigations or other actions against us could be costly and time consuming to defend.. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation can result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we also receive requests for information from various state and federal regulatory authorities, some of which take the form of civil investigative demands or subpoenas. Some of these regulatory inquiries may result in the assessment of fines for violations of regulations or settlements with such authorities requiring a variety of remedies.. Although certain matters may be subject to a cross-indemnity agreement between BKFS LLC and ServiceLink, there can be no assurance that we will not incur additional material costs and expenses in connection with any potential future investigations or claims, including but not limited to fines or penalties and legal costs, or be subject to other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance may not cover such investigations and claims, may not be sufficient for one or more such investigations and claims and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. An investigation or claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, management distraction or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and adversely affect the trading price of our stock.. The Spin-off could result in significant tax liability to FNF and to holders of FNF Group common stock, and under certain circumstances, we may have a significant indemnity obligation to FNF, which is not limited in amount or subject to any cap, if the Spin-off is treated as a taxable transaction due to our acts or failure to act.. FNF received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") in connection with the Spin-off, and an opinion of Deloitte Tax LLP, tax advisor to FNF, to the effect that certain contributions made by FNF to BKHI and the Spin-off qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Sections 368(a) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"IRC\") and a distribution to which Sections 355 and 361 of the IRC applies, respectively. The IRS private letter ruling and the opinion are based upon various factual representations and assumptions and, in the case of the opinion, certain undertakings, made by FNF and Black Knight. Any inaccuracy in the representations or assumptions upon which such tax opinion was based, or failure by FNF or Black Knight to comply with any undertakings made in connection with such tax opinion, could alter the conclusions reached in such opinion. Opinions with respect to these matters are not binding on the IRS or the courts. As a result, the conclusions expressed in these opinions could be challenged by the IRS and a court could sustain such a challenge.. Even if the Spin-off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 355, 361 and 368(a) of the IRC, the Spin-off would result in a significant U.S. federal income tax liability to FNF (but not to holders of FNF Group common stock) under Section 355(e) of the IRC if one or more persons acquire a 50% or greater interest (measured by vote or value) in the stock of Black Knight as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-off. Current U.S. federal income tax law generally creates a presumption that any acquisitions of the stock of Black Knight within two years before or after the Spin-off are part of a plan that includes the Spin-off, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. The process for determining whether an acquisition is part of a plan under these rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. We do not expect that the mergers and the THL Interest Exchange, by themselves, will cause Section 355(e) to apply to the Spin-off. Notwithstanding the IRS ruling and the opinion of Deloitte Tax LLP described above, Black Knight might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of Black Knight to occur, thereby triggering a tax liability to FNF. If the Spin-off is determined to be taxable to FNF, FNF would recognize gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New BKH common stock held by it immediately before the Spin-off over FNF's tax basis therein. Open market purchases of Black Knight common stock by third parties without any negotiation with Black Knight will generally not cause Section 355(e) of the IRC to apply to the Spin-off.. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a tax matters agreement (the \"Tax Matters Agreement\") with FNF pursuant to which we are obligated to indemnify FNF for (i) any action by Black Knight, or the failure to take any action within our control which, negates the tax-free status of the transactions; or (ii) direct or indirect changes in ownership of Black Knight equity interests that cause the Spin-off to be a taxable event to FNF as a result of the application of Section 355(e) of the IRC or to be a taxable event as a result of a failure to satisfy the \"continuity of interest\" or \"device\" requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the IRC.. If it is subsequently determined, for whatever reason, that the Spin-off does not qualify for tax-free treatment, holders of FNF Group common stock immediately prior to the Spin-off could incur significant tax liabilities.. 21. Table of Contents. We may decide to forgo certain transactions in order to avoid the risk of incurring significant tax-related liabilities.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we covenanted not to take or fail to take any reasonably required action, following the Spin-off, which action or failure to act, would (i) be inconsistent with any covenant or representation made by Black Knight in any document related to the Spin-off, or (ii) prevent, or be reasonably likely to prevent, the tax-free status of the Spin-off. Further, the Tax Matters Agreement requires us to generally indemnify FNF and its subsidiaries for any taxes or losses resulting from any action by Black Knight or our subsidiaries, or the failure to take any action within our control which, negates the tax-free status of the Spin-off; or direct or indirect changes in ownership of Black Knight equity interests that cause the Spin-off to be a taxable event to FNF as a result of the application of Section 355(e) of the IRC or to be a taxable event as a result of a failure to satisfy the \"continuity of interest\" or \"device\" requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the IRC. As a result, we may determine to forgo certain transactions that might have otherwise been advantageous in order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Spin-off.. In particular, we may determine to continue to operate certain of our business operations for the foreseeable future even if a liquidation or sale of such business might have otherwise been advantageous. Moreover, in light of the mergers as well as certain other transactions that might be treated as part of a plan that includes the Spin-off for purposes of Section 355(e) of the IRC (as discussed above), we may determine to forgo certain transactions, including share repurchases, stock issuances, asset dispositions or other strategic transactions for some period of time following the mergers. In addition, our indemnity obligation under the Tax Matters Agreement might discourage, delay or prevent a third party from entering into a change of control transaction with us for some period of time following the Spin-off.. We will be restricted from pursuing potential business opportunities under the non-competition agreement.. In connection with the Distribution, we entered into a non-competition agreement with FNF pursuant to which we agreed to certain restrictions on the scope of the business that we may conduct for the ten-year period following completion of the transactions, including that we are prohibited from (i) engaging in title generation/escrow services, appraisal or default and field services work (other than technology solutions for such settlement services) without the prior written consent of FNF (subject to an exception allowing us to acquire a business engaged in such restricted services if at least 90% of such business' revenue is contributed by activities other than such restricted services) and (ii) engaging in certain transactions, such as a merger, sale of assets or sale of greater than 5% of its equity interests, with a buyer that derives 10% or more of its revenue from such restricted services. Although we do not presently engage in any of these restricted services and our current business is not restricted, as a result of these restrictions, we may have to forgo certain transactions that might have otherwise been advantageous in compliance with our obligations under the non-competition agreement.. In particular, the restriction on engaging in a merger, sale of assets or sale of greater than 5% of its equity interests with a buyer that derives 10% or more of its revenue from restricted services may discourage a third party engaged in such restricted services from pursuing such a transaction with us during the ten-year period following completion of the transactions.. Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders.. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, as applicable, even if such a transaction would benefit our shareholders. For example, our charter and bylaws:. • divide our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms, which may delay or prevent a change of our management or a change of control;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by us upon approval of our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares of capital stock, making a takeover more difficult and expensive;. • provide that directors may be removed from office only for cause and that any vacancy on our Board of Directors may only be filled by a majority of our directors then in office, which may make it difficult for other shareholders to reconstitute our Board of Directors;. • provide that special meetings of the shareholders may be called only upon the request of a majority of our Board of Directors or by the chairman of the Board of Directors or our chief executive officer; and. • require advance notice to be given by shareholders for any shareholder proposals or director nominees.. By virtue of not opting out of Section 203 of the DGCL in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years after the time the shareholder became an interested stockholder, subject to certain exceptions, including if, prior to such time, the board of directors approved the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested stockholder. \"Business combinations\" include mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the \"interested stockholder.\" Subject to various exceptions, an \"interested stockholder\" is a person who, together with his or her affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more. 22. Table of Contents. of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. These restrictions generally prohibit or delay the accomplishment of mergers or other takeover or change of control attempts that are not approved by a company's board of directors.. These restrictions and provisions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit shareholder value by impeding a sale of us.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which your shares were acquired. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors, including those described above and the following:. • our operating performance and the performance of our competitors and fluctuations in our operating results;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry;. • global, national or local economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance;. • announcements of positive news by us or our competitors, such as announcements of new products, services, strategic investments or acquisitions;. • announcements of negative news by us or our competitors, such as announcements of poorer than expected results of operations, data breaches or significant litigation;. • actual or anticipated variations in our or our competitors' operating results, and our and our competitors' growth rates;. • failure by us or our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance we or our competitors may give the market;. • changes in laws or regulations, or new interpretations or applications of laws and regulations, that are applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • the arrival or departure of key personnel;. • the number of shares publicly traded;. • future sales or issuances of our common stock, including sales, distributions or issuances by us, our officers or directors and our significant shareholders, including THL and certain of their affiliates; and. • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors.. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes, may cause declines in the market price of our common stock, and you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment.. As we primarily operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment. We have not paid cash dividends to date and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. As a result of our current dividend policy, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Any future determination to declare and pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash dividends from our operating subsidiaries, which may further restrict our ability to pay dividends as a result of the laws of their jurisdiction of organization or agreements of our subsidiaries, including agreements governing our indebtedness. Existing or future agreements governing our indebtedness may also limit our ability to pay dividends.. 23"
