[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business operations face a number of risks.  These risks should be read and considered with other information provided in this report.. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline.. Our market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving and there are limited barriers to entry for many segments of this market.. The companies we compete with and other potential competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue and better name recognition than we do. Also, a large diversified software enterprise could decide to enter the market directly, including through acquisitions. Competitive pressures can adversely impact our business by limiting the prices we can charge our customers and making the adoption and renewal of our solutions more difficult.. Our competitors might also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with resellers and third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have had relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions. These competitive pressures could cause our revenue and market share to decline.. Because a significant portion of our revenue is recognized ratably over the terms of the contract, downturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our revenue.. We recognize our maintenance and subscriptions revenue monthly over the term of the customer agreement. Most of our maintenance arrangements are for a one-year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one-year term or a three-year term. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to arrangements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales to new customers, renewals by existing customers or market acceptance of our solutions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and could negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters.. 2017 Form 10-K  15. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. If our customers do not renew their annual maintenance and support arrangements or subscriptions for our solutions or if they do not renew them on terms that are favorable to us, our business might suffer.. Most of our maintenance arrangements are for a one-year term. Our subscription arrangements are typically either for a one-year term or a three-year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we seek the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance and subscriptions renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support arrangements or subscriptions with us on beneficial terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions and services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels.. Defects, delays or interruptions in our cloud-based solutions and hosting services could diminish demand for these services and subject us to substantial liability.. We currently utilize data center hosting facilities to provide cloud-based solutions to some of our subscription customers and hosting services to our on-premise license customers. Any damage to, or failure of, these data center systems generally could result in interruptions in service to our customers, notwithstanding any business continuity or disaster recovery agreements that may currently be in place at these facilities. Because our cloud-based solutions and hosting service offerings are complex, and we have incorporated a variety of new computer hardware and software systems at our data centers, our services might have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using our services. This could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and business results. Internet-based services sometimes contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our web-based services and new errors might again be detected in the future. In addition, our customers might use our Internet-based offerings in unanticipated ways that cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data.. Because our customers use these services for important aspects of their businesses, any defects, delays or disruptions in service or other performance problems with our services could hurt our reputation and damage our customers' businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect to cancel their service, delay or withhold payment to us, not purchase from us in the future or make claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Any of these could harm our business and reputation.. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services.. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our software, and new errors in our existing software may be detected in the future.. After the release of our software, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Furthermore, our customers may use our software together with solutions from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems.. Our failure to obtain licenses for third-party technologies could harm our business.. We expect to continue licensing technologies from third parties, including applications used in our research and development activities, technologies which are integrated into our solutions and solutions that we resell. We believe that the loss of any third-party technologies currently integrated into our solutions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability in the future to obtain any third-party licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could delay future solution development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated. This inability in turn could harm our business and operating results. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of. 16  2017 Form 10-K. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs.. The market for software and services for nonprofit, charitable giving and educational organizations might not grow and these organizations might not continue to adopt our solutions and services.. Many nonprofit organizations have not traditionally used integrated and comprehensive software and services for their nonprofit-specific needs. We cannot be certain that the market for such solutions and services will continue to develop and grow or that nonprofit organizations will elect to adopt our solutions and services rather than continue to use traditional, less automated methods, attempt to develop software internally, rely upon legacy software systems, or use software solutions not specifically designed for the nonprofit market. Nonprofit organizations that have already invested substantial resources in other fundraising methods or other non-integrated software solutions might be reluctant to adopt our solutions and services to supplement or replace their existing systems or methods.  In addition, the implementation of one or more of our core software solutions can involve significant time and capital commitments by our customers, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. If demand for and market acceptance of our solutions and services does not increase, we might not grow our business as we expect.. A large percentage of our customers are nonprofits, foundations, educational institutions and other members of the social good community that rely on charitable donations. If charitable giving, including online giving, does not continue to grow or declines, it could limit our current and potential customers' ability to use and pay for our solutions and services, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. If we are unable, or our customers believe we are unable, to detect and prevent unauthorized use of payment card information and safeguard confidential donor data, we could be subject to financial liability, our reputation could be harmed and customers may be reluctant to use our solutions and services.. The rules of payment card associations in which we participate require that we comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\") in order to preserve security of payment card data. Under PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of payment card data to help prevent card fraud. Conforming our solutions and services to PCI DSS or other payment services related regulations or requirements imposed by payment networks or our customers or payment processing partners is expensive and time-consuming. However, failure to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, may impair the security of payment card data in our possession, and may harm our reputation and our business prospects, including by limiting our ability to process transactions. Currently some of our solutions are not certified as compliant with the Payment Application Data Security Standard, which is a subset of the requirements for PCI DSS. In addition, currently some of our solutions are not fully compliant with PCI DSS.. If the security of our software is breached, we fail to securely collect, store and transmit customer information, or we fail to safeguard confidential donor data, we could be exposed to liability, litigation, penalties and remedial costs and our reputation and business could suffer.. Fundamental to the use of our solutions is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential donor and end user data and transaction data, including in our payment services. Despite the network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security procedures we employ to safeguard our systems, we may still be vulnerable to a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of confidential donor data and transaction data, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results.. Like many major businesses, we are, from time to time, a target of cyber-attacks and phishing schemes, and we expect these threats to continue. Because of the numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persistent cyber-attacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade systems have become increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. As these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to devote significant additional resources in order to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. A compromise of our data security that results in customer or donor personal or payment card data being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations,. 2017 Form 10-K  17. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. We might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect further against security breaches or to rectify problems caused by any security breach, including notification under data privacy laws and regulations and expenses related to remediating our information security systems. Even though we carry cyber-technology insurance policies that may provide insurance coverage under certain circumstances, we might suffer losses as a result of a security breach that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. A security breach and any efforts we make to address such breach could also result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.. Further, the existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm client confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remedy such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results.. Privacy and data protection concerns, including evolving domestic and international government regulation in the area of consumer data privacy or data protection, could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The effectiveness of our software solutions relies on our customers' storage and use of data concerning their customers, including financial, personally identifying or other sensitive data. Our customers' collection and use of this data for donor profiling, data analytics or communications outreach might raise privacy and data protection concerns and negatively impact the demand for our solutions and services. For example, our custom modeling and analytical services, including ProspectPoint, WealthPoint and donorCentrics, rely heavily on processing and using of data we gather from customers and various sources. Privacy and data protection laws could restrict or add regulatory and compliance processes to our ability to market and profit from those services.. Governments in some jurisdictions have enacted or are considering enacting consumer data privacy or data protection legislation, including laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, transfer, processing and use of personal data. This legislation could reduce the demand for our software solutions if we fail to design or enhance our solutions to enable our customers to comply with the privacy and data protection measures required by the legislation. Moreover, we may be exposed to liability under existing or new consumer privacy or data protection legislation. For example, we must comply with applicable provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\"), and might be subject to similar provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related regulations. Even technical violations of these laws may result in penalties that are assessed for each non-compliant transaction.. More recently, the European Union (\"EU\") General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective in May 2018, extends the scope of the EU data protection law to all companies processing data of EU residents, regardless of the company's location. The law requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including new rights such as the portability of personal data. Although we have an extensive program underway to address GDPR requirements, our efforts to comply with GDPR and other privacy and data protections laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. Furthermore, actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase, which could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability.. If our customers or we were found to be subject to and in violation of any privacy or data protection laws or regulations, our business may be materially and adversely impacted and we and/or our customers would likely have to change our business practices. In addition, these laws and regulations could impose significant costs on our customers and us and make it more difficult for donors to make online donations.. We are in the information technology business, and our solutions and services store, retrieve, transfer, manipulate and manage our customers' information and data. The effectiveness of our software solutions relies on our customers' storage and use of data concerning their donors, including financial, personally identifying and other sensitive data and our business uses similar systems that require us to store and use data with respect to our customers and personnel. Our collection and our customers' collection and use of this data might raise privacy and data protection concerns and negatively impact our business or the demand for our solutions and services. If a breach of data security were to occur, or other violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations were to be alleged, our business may be materially and adversely impacted and solutions may be perceived as less desirable, which would negatively affect our business and operating results.. 18  2017 Form 10-K. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. If we fail to respond to technological changes and successfully introduce new and improved solutions, our competitive position may be harmed and our business may suffer.. The introduction of solutions encompassing new technologies can render existing solutions obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance existing solutions and develop and introduce in a timely manner or acquire new solutions that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop or acquire on a timely and cost-effective basis new software solutions or enhancements to existing solutions or if such new solutions or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Because competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain key personnel needed to support our planned growth.. To meet our objectives successfully, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with specialized skill sets. If we are unable to attract suitably qualified management, there could be a material adverse impact on our business.. Further, in the past, we have used equity incentive programs as part of our overall employee compensation agreements to both attract and retain personnel. A decline in our stock price could negatively impact the value of these equity incentive and related compensation programs as retention and recruiting tools. We may need to create new or additional equity incentive programs and/or compensation packages to remain competitive, which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and/or adversely affect our results of operations.. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the expansion of our international operations, our business could suffer.. We currently have non-U.S. operations primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, and we intend to expand further into international markets. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. Our direct sales model requires us to attract, retain and manage qualified sales personnel capable of selling into markets outside the United States. In some cases, our costs of sales might increase if our customers require us to sell through local distributors.. If we are unable to grow our international operations in a cost-effective and timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Doing business internationally involves additional risks that could harm our operating results.. We expect that an increasing portion of our international revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we expand our international operations, exposures to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase.. Unfavorable media coverage related to peer-to-peer fundraising campaigns on our social platforms could negatively impact our business.. Our online social giving platforms receive a high degree of media coverage for particularly news-worthy or controversial fundraising campaigns, as well as for our fee-based business model. Although our terms of service provide express limitations on the platforms' user-initiated fundraising campaigns and reserve our right to remove content that violates our terms of service, it may not always be possible to remove such content prior to it receiving attention in the media. Negative publicity related to our online social giving platforms could have an adverse effect on the size, engagement, and loyalty of our user base and could result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources.. As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions in the past and continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire companies, technologies and/or services. The successful integration of acquired companies requires, among other things, coordination of various departments, including solution development, engineering, sales and marketing and finance, as well as integration in our system of internal controls. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks.. 2017 Form 10-K  19. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted which, in turn, could affect the market price of our stock. Moreover, we could finance any acquisition with debt, resulting in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Furthermore, if we incur additional debt to fund acquisitions and are unable to service our debt obligation we may have a greater risk of default under our credit facility. In addition, acquisitions may cause a disruption to our ongoing business, including diversion of resources and management's attention from our existing business and a greater than expected investment of resources or operating expenses.. The success of our acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to retain their engineering, sales, marketing, development and other personnel. It is possible that these employees might decide to terminate their employment. If key employees terminate their employment, the sales, marketing or development activities of acquired companies might be adversely affected, our management's attention might be diverted from successfully integrating the acquired operations to hiring suitable replacements and, as a result, our business might suffer.. We significantly increased our leverage in connection with acquisitions.. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness in connection with recent acquisitions. As a result of this indebtedness, our interest payment obligations have increased. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse effects on our business, including the following:. • Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes;. • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;. • Restricting us from making additional strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities;. • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and. • Decreasing our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic and industry conditions.. If we incur additional debt, these risks may intensify. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets could negatively affect our operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $530.2 million and $314.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a non-cash charge to operating earnings. Changes in circumstances that could indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our stock price, market capitalization, cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We cannot accurately predict the likelihood or potential amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 20  2017 Form 10-K. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. Restrictions in our credit facility may limit our activities, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.. Our credit facility contains restrictions, including covenants limiting our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, make acquisitions and other investments, prepay specified debt, consolidate, merge or acquire other businesses, sell assets, pay dividends and other distributions, repurchase stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.. In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings, which we might not be able to do. In addition, certain of our material domestic subsidiaries will be required to guarantee amounts borrowed under the credit facility, and we have pledged the shares of certain of our subsidiaries as collateral for our obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate, including allowing lenders under the credit facility to enforce guarantees of our subsidiaries, if any, or exercise their rights with respect to the shares pledged as collateral.. We have recorded significant deferred tax assets, and we might never realize their full value, which would result in a charge against our earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, we had deferred tax assets of $47.0 million. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generating sufficient taxable income in future years to realize the tax benefit from those assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at least annually for realizability. A charge against our earnings would result if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This could be caused by, among other things, deterioration in performance, loss of key contracts, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the solutions sold by our business and a variety of other factors. If a deferred tax asset was determined to be not realizable in a future period, the charge to earnings would be recognized as an expense in our results of operations in the period the determination is made. Additionally, if we are unable to utilize our deferred tax assets, our cash flow available to fund operations could be adversely affected.. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we might never realize the full value of our deferred tax assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of our deferred tax assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, enter into royalty or licensing agreements or develop or license substitute technology.. We may be subject to claims that our technologies in our solutions and services infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. In addition, the vendors providing us with technology that we use in our own technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our solutions and services do not infringe any intellectual property or other proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that our solutions and services do not, or that they will not in the future, infringe intellectual property or other proprietary rights held by others. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, or obtain a license to continue to use the solutions and services that are the subject of the claim, and/or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from the third party asserting any particular claim, or that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the solutions and services. In addition, we generally provide in our customer arrangements for certain solutions and services that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to technology we provide to those customers, which could obligate us to pay damages if the solutions and services were found to be infringing. Infringement claims asserted against us, our vendors or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 2017 Form 10-K  21. Table of Contents. Blackbaud, Inc.. Our solutions utilize open source software, which may subject us to litigation, require us to re-engineer our solutions, or otherwise divert resources away from our development efforts.. We use open source software in connection with certain of our solutions. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, \"Apache-style\" licenses, \"BSD-style\" licenses and other open source licenses.  There is little legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of some of these licenses and, therefore, the potential impact of these terms on our business is currently unable to be determined and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solutions and technologies. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to litigation by parties claiming ownership of open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their own software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business.. We rely upon trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, which might not provide us with adequate protection.. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology rights. We might not be successful in protecting our proprietary technology and our proprietary rights might not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. To protect our core proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection.. Increasing and evolving domestic and international government regulation could affect our business.. Pending and enacted legislation at the state and federal levels and internationally, including those related to taxation, fundraising activities and payment processing, may also restrict further our information gathering and disclosure practices, for example, by requiring us to comply with extensive and costly registration, reporting or disclosure requirements. Any substantial increase in government regulation affecting our business, or any failure to comply with existing regulations, could require substantial investments to achieve compliance, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. We depend on our principal executive offices and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, computer hacker attacks and natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could disrupt one or more of these facilities and adversely affect our operations. Our principal executive offices are located in a coastal region that has experienced hurricanes in the past. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our commercial contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us could have a significant negative impact on our operations."
