[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The risk factors set forth below should be carefully considered. The risks described below are those that we believe could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, however, they are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Food safety and food-borne illness concerns in our restaurants or throughout the industry or supply chain may have an adverse effect on our business by reducing demand and increasing costs.. Regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues, whether at one of our restaurants or in the industry or supply chain generally, could have a negative impact on our traffic and sales and adversely affect the reputation of our brands. Food safety issues could be caused by suppliers or distributors and, as a result, be out of our control. Health concerns or outbreaks of disease in a food product could also reduce demand for particular menu offerings. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of other companies could result in negative publicity about the food service industry generally and adversely impact our sales. Social media has dramatically increased the rate at which negative publicity, including as it relates to food-borne illnesses, can be disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to respond or address an issue. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and consumer options for other prepared food offerings continue to expand. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A substantial number of restaurant operators compete directly and indirectly with us with respect to price, service, location and food quality, some of which are well-established with significant resources. There is also active competition for management and other personnel, and attractive suitable real estate sites. Consumer tastes, nutritional and dietary trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our competitors may react more efficiently, creatively and effectively to those conditions. In addition, our competitors may generate or better implement business strategies that improve the value and relevance of their brands and reputation, relative to ours. For example, our competitors may more successfully implement menu or technology initiatives, such as remote ordering, social media or mobile technology platforms that expedite or enhance the customer experience. Further, we face growing competition from quick service and fast casual restaurants, the supermarket industry and meal kit and food delivery providers, with the improvement of prepared food offerings and the trend towards convergence in grocery, deli, retail and restaurant services. We believe all of the above factors have increased competitive pressures in the casual dining sector in recent periods and we believe they will continue to present a challenging competitive environment in future periods. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our traffic, sales and margins could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We are subject to various federal and state employment and labor laws and regulations.. Various federal and state employment and labor laws and regulations govern our relationships with our employees and affect operating costs, and similar laws and regulations apply to our operations outside of the U.S. These laws and regulations relate to matters including employment discrimination, minimum wage requirements, overtime, tip credits, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, working conditions, immigration status, tax reporting and other wage and benefit requirements. Any significant additional government regulations and new laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage increases, mandated benefits or other requirements that impose additional obligations on us, could increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. As a significant number of our food service and preparation personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, federal, state and local proposals related to minimum wage requirements or similar matters could, to the extent implemented, materially increase our labor and other costs. Several states in which we operate have recently approved minimum wage increases. As minimum wage increases are implemented in these states or any other states in which we operate in the future, we expect our labor costs will continue to increase. Our ability to respond to minimum wage increases by increasing menu prices depends on the responses of our competitors and consumers. Our distributors and suppliers could also be affected by higher minimum wage, benefit standards and compliance costs, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us.. We rely on our employees to accurately disclose the full amount of their tip income, and we base our FICA tax reporting on the disclosures provided to us by such tipped employees. Inaccurate employee FICA tax reporting could subject us to monetary liabilities, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2015, the IRS issued tax adjustments related to cash tips received and unreported by our employees during prior years.. Challenging economic conditions may have a negative effect on our business and financial results.. Challenging economic conditions may negatively impact consumer spending and thus cause a decline in our financial results. For example, international, domestic and regional economic conditions, consumer income levels, financial market volatility, social unrest, governmental, political and budget matters and a slow or stagnant pace of economic growth generally may have a negative effect on consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which the restaurant industry depends upon. In recent years, we believe these factors and conditions may have affected consumer traffic and comparable restaurant sales for us and throughout our industry and may continue to contribute to a challenging sales environment in the casual dining sector. A decline in economic conditions or negative developments with respect to any of the other factors mentioned above, generally or in particular markets in which we operate, and our consumers' reactions to these trends could result in increased pressure with respect to our pricing, traffic levels, commodity and other costs and the continuation of our innovation and productivity initiatives, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. These factors could also cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants or delay remodeling of our existing restaurant locations. Further, poor economic conditions may force nearby businesses to shut down, which could cause our restaurant locations to be less attractive.. Increased commodity, energy and other costs could decrease our profit margins or cause us to limit or otherwise modify our menus or increase prices, which could adversely affect our business.. The performance of our restaurants depends on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. Our business also incurs significant costs for energy, insurance, labor, marketing and real estate. Prices may be affected due to supply, market changes, increased competition, the general risk of inflation, changes in laws, shortages or interruptions in supply due to weather, disease or other conditions beyond our control, or other reasons. Increased prices or shortages could affect the cost and quality of the items we buy or require us to raise prices, limit our menu options or implement alternative processes or products. As result, these events, combined with other more general economic and demographic conditions, could impact our pricing and negatively affect our sales and profit margins.. Our failure to comply with government regulation related to our restaurant operations, and the costs of compliance or non-compliance, could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include, among others, alcoholic beverage control, food safety, nutritional menu labeling, health care, environmental and fire agencies in the state, municipality or country in which the restaurant is located. Our suppliers are also subject to regulation in some of these areas. Any difficulties or inabilities to retain or renew licenses, or increased compliance costs due to changed regulations, could adversely affect operations at existing restaurants. Additionally, difficulties in obtaining or failing to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of new restaurants.. 16. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. Alcoholic beverage sales represent 14% of our consolidated restaurant sales and are subject to extensive state and local licensing and other regulations. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain a liquor license would adversely affect that restaurant's operations. In addition, we are subject to \"dram shop\" statutes in certain states. These statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person.. The FDA adopted final regulations to implement federal nutritional disclosure requirements in 2014, and, although implementation has been delayed, we expect we will be required to comply with these regulations in 2018. The regulations will require us to include calorie information on our menus, and provide additional nutritional information upon request. If the costs of implementing or complying with these new requirements exceed our expectations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear. It is possible that we may also become subject to other regulation in the future seeking to tax or regulate high fat and high sodium foods in certain of our markets. Compliance with these regulations could be costly.. The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business.. Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid steak and other products we offer in any of our concepts in favor of foods or ingredients that are perceived as healthier or otherwise reflect popular demand, our business and operating results would be harmed. If we are unable to anticipate or successfully respond to changes in consumer preferences, our results of operations could be adversely affected, generally or in particular concepts or markets.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or other legislative changes, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") and the Base Erosion Profit Shifting initiative being conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, the outcome of income tax audits, and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of a tax audit could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. In addition, our effective income tax rate and our results may be impacted by our ability to realize deferred tax benefits and by any increases or decreases of our valuation allowances applied to our existing deferred tax assets.. The Tax Act is expected to have a favorable impact on the Company's effective tax rate and net income as reported under generally accepted accounting principles both in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and subsequent reporting periods to which the Tax Act is effective. However, the Company is assessing the impact of the Tax Act and there can be no assurances that it will have the expected impact.. 17. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. Risks associated with our expansion, remodeling and relocation plans may have adverse effects on our operating results.. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our current portfolio of restaurants. Our current development schedule calls for the construction of approximately 20 new system-wide locations in 2018. A variety of factors could cause the actual results and outcome of those expansion plans to differ from the anticipated results, including among other things:. • the availability of attractive sites for new restaurants;. • acquiring or leasing those sites at acceptable prices and other terms;. • funding or financing our development;. • obtaining all required permits, approvals and licenses on a timely basis;. • recruiting and training skilled management and restaurant employees and retaining those employees on acceptable terms;. • weather, natural disasters and other events or factors beyond our control resulting in construction or other delays; and. • consumer tastes in new geographic regions and acceptance of our restaurant concepts and awareness of our brands in those regions.. It is difficult to estimate the performance of newly opened restaurants. Earnings achieved to date by restaurants open for less than two years may not be indicative of future operating results. If new restaurants do not meet targeted performance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, including as a result of any impairment losses that we may be required to recognize. There is also the possibility that new restaurants may attract consumers away from other restaurants we own, thereby reducing the revenues of those existing restaurants, or that we will incur unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion.. Some of the challenges described above could be more significant in international markets in which we have more limited experience, either generally or with a particular brand. Those markets are likely to have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, discretionary spending patterns and brand awareness, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets or make it more difficult to estimate the performance of new restaurants.. In addition, in an effort to increase same-restaurant sales and improve our operating performance, we continue to make improvements to our facilities through our remodeling and relocation programs. We also close underperforming restaurants from time to time in order to improve the performance of our brands. As demographic and economic patterns change or there are declines in neighborhoods where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in local areas, current locations may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Because we lease a significant majority of our restaurants, we incur significant lease termination expenses when we close or relocate a restaurant and are often obligated to continue rent and other lease related payments after restaurant closure. We also incur significant asset impairment and other charges in connection with closures and relocations. If the expenses associated with remodels, relocations or closures are higher than anticipated, we cannot find suitable locations or remodeled or relocated restaurants do not perform as expected, these programs may not yield the desired return on investment, which could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Cyber security breaches of confidential consumer, personal employee and other material information may adversely affect our business.. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or the theft or exposure of confidential information or intellectual property. A cyber incident that compromises the information of our consumers or employees could result in widespread negative publicity, damage to the reputation of our brands, a loss of consumers, an interruption of our business and legal liabilities.. 18. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. We also maintain certain personal information regarding our employees and confidential information about our customers, franchisees and suppliers. We segment our card data environment and employ a cybersecurity protection program, which is based upon proven industry frameworks. This program includes but is not limited to cybersecurity techniques, tactics and procedures including the deployment of a robust set of security controls, continuous monitoring and detection programs, network protections, stringent vendor selection criteria, secure software development programs and ongoing employee training, awareness and incident response preparedness. In addition, we continuously scan and improve our environment for any vulnerabilities, perform penetration testing and engage third parties to assure effectiveness of our security measures. However, there are no assurances that such programs will prevent or detect cyber security breaches.. Despite our security measures, our technology systems may be vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, employee error or malfeasance, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems. From time to time we have been, and likely will continue to be, the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. In recent years our reliance on technology has increased, and consequently so have the scope and severity of risks posed to our systems from cyber threats. Malicious attacks and intrusion efforts are continuous and evolving, and are perpetuated by many different parties with varying motives, including identity thieves, contractors, vendors, employees, competitors, prospective insider traders, so-called \"hacktivists,\" terrorists and others. We continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact.. Our operations and corporate functions rely heavily on information systems, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, payment of obligations, collection of cash, data warehousing to support analytics, finance and accounting systems, mobile technologies to enhance the customer experience and other various processes and procedures, some of which are handled by third parties. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, system maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, or any cyber incident relating to these systems could expose our systems or information to cyber threats, result in delays in consumer service, reduced efficiency in our operations or result in negative publicity. For example, a weakness in vendor's systems or software products may provide a mechanism for a cyber threat. In recent years, certain retailers have experienced security breaches in which customer information was stolen through vendor access channels. While we select our third-party suppliers carefully, cyber attacks and security breaches at a supplier could compromise confidential information or adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. These problems could negatively affect our results of operations, and remediation could result in significant, unplanned capital investments.. As a merchant and service provider of point-of-sale related services, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. Despite our information security measures and our efforts to comply with PCI DSS guidelines, we cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber incidents from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future.. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our consumers' credit or debit card information or if consumer or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from such an event, may have a material adverse effect on our business and the potential of incurring significant remediation costs.. 19. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. We face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets that could have a negative impact on our financial performance.. We have a significant number of restaurants outside the United States, and we intend to continue our efforts to grow internationally. There is no assurance that international operations will be profitable or international growth will continue. In addition, if we have a significant concentration of restaurants in a foreign market the impact of any negative local conditions can have a sizable impact on our results.. Our foreign operations are subject to all of the same risks as our U.S. restaurants, as well as additional risks including, among others, international economic, political, social and legal conditions and the possibility of instability and unrest, differing cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and tax systems, corruption, anti-American sentiment, the ability to source high quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements and the collection of ongoing royalties from international franchisees, the availability and costs of land, construction and financing, and the availability of experienced management, appropriate franchisees and area operating partners.. Currency regulations and fluctuations in exchange rates could also affect our performance. We have operations in many foreign countries, including direct investments in restaurants in Brazil, Hong Kong and China, as well as international franchises. Brazil is our largest international market and will continue to be our top international development priority. As a result, we may experience losses from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or any hedging arrangements we enter into to offset such fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our overall sales and earnings.. We are subject to governmental regulation of our foreign operations, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any new regulatory or trade initiatives could impact our operations in certain countries. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Loss of key management personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on our leadership team and other key management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficiently experienced and capable management personnel, our business and financial results may suffer.. Failure to recruit, train and retain high-quality restaurant management and team members may result in lower guest satisfaction and lower sales and profitability.. Our restaurant-level management and team members are largely responsible for the quality of our service. Our guests may be dissatisfied and our sales may decline if we fail to recruit, train and retain managers and team members that effectively implement our business strategy and provide high quality guest service. There is active competition for quality management personnel and hourly team members. If we experience high turnover, we may experience higher labor costs and have a shortage of adequate management personnel required for future growth.. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our ability to execute innovative marketing and consumer relationship initiatives to maintain brand relevance and drive profitable sales growth.. Our success depends on our ability to preserve and grow our brands. Our brand value and reputation are especially important to differentiate our concepts in the highly competitive casual dining sector to achieve sustainable same-restaurant sales growth and warrant new unit growth. Brand value and reputation is based in large part on consumer perceptions, which are driven by both our actions and actions beyond our control, such as new brand strategies or their implementation, business incidents, ineffective advertising or marketing efforts, or unfavorable mainstream or social media publicity involving us, our industry, our franchisees, or our suppliers. A failure to innovate and extend our brands in ways that are relevant to consumers and occasions in order to generate sustainable same-restaurant traffic growth,. 20. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. and produce non-traditional sales and earnings growth opportunities, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, insufficient focus on our competition or failure to adequately address declines in the casual dining industry, could adversely impact results of operations.. If our competitors increase their spending on advertising, promotions and loyalty programs, if our advertising, media or marketing expenses increase, or if our advertising, promotions and loyalty programs become less effective than those of our competitors, or if we do not adequately leverage technology and data analytic capabilities needed to generate concise competitive insight, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could have a material adverse impact on our business.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices that allow individuals to access a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate as is its impact, and users can post information often without filters or checks on the accuracy of the content posted. Adverse or inaccurate information concerning our company or concepts may be posted on such platforms at any time, and such information can quickly reach a wide audience. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction, and it is challenging to monitor and anticipate developments on social media in order to respond in an effective and timely manner. We could also be exposed to these risks if we fail to use social media responsibly in our marketing efforts. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regardless of its basis or validity, any unfavorable publicity could adversely affect public perception of our brands.. Although search engine marketing, social media and other new technological platforms offer great opportunities to increase awareness of and engagement with our brands, a failure to use social media responsibly in our marketing efforts may further expose us to these risks. Many of our competitors are expanding their use of social media and new social media platforms are rapidly being developed, potentially making more traditional social media platforms obsolete. As a result, we need to continuously innovate and develop our social media strategies in order to maintain broad appeal with guests and brand relevance. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms to attract and retain guests. We also continue to invest in other digital marketing initiatives that allow us to reach our guests across multiple digital channels and build their awareness of, engagement with, and loyalty to our brands. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues, increased employee engagement or brand recognition. In addition, a variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about us, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our guests or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible or long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Along with other intangible assets, we test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. We also evaluate long-lived assets on a quarterly basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. We have limited control with respect to the operations of our franchisees, which could have a negative impact on our business.. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with our standards and we provide training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and these franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our product and service quality standards and contractual requirements, our image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We have a limited number of suppliers for our major products and rely on one custom distribution company for our national distribution programs in the U.S. and Brazil. If our suppliers or custom distributors are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts or we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with these or new suppliers or distributors, if needed, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.. We depend on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications, and we have a limited number of suppliers for our major products, such as beef. In 2017, we purchased: (i) more than 85% of our U.S. beef raw materials from four beef suppliers that represent more than 80% of the total beef marketplace in the U.S and (ii) more than 95% of our Brazil beef raw materials from one beef supplier that represents approximately 12% of the total Brazil beef marketplace. Due to the nature of our industry, we expect to continue to purchase a substantial amount of our beef from a small number of suppliers. We also primarily use one supplier in the U.S. and Brazil, respectively, to process beef raw materials to our specifications and we use one distribution company to provide distribution services in the U.S and Brazil, respectively. Although we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers or distributors, if our suppliers or distributors are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.. In addition, if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with our suppliers and distributor, we may lose consumers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier or distribution services. The failure to develop and maintain supplier and distributor relationships and any resulting disruptions to the provision of food and other supplies to our restaurant locations could adversely affect our operating results.. Failure to achieve our projected cost savings from our efficiency initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations and eliminate potential funding for growth opportunities.. In recent years, we have identified strategies and taken steps to reduce operating costs and free up resources to reinvest in our business. These strategies include improved supply chain management, implementing labor scheduling tools and integrating restaurant information systems across our brands. We continue to evaluate and implement further cost-saving initiatives. However, the ability to reduce our operating costs through these initiatives is subject to risks and uncertainties, such as our ability to obtain improved supply pricing and the reliability of any new suppliers or technology, and we cannot assure that these activities, or any other activities that we may undertake in the future, will achieve the desired cost savings and efficiencies. Failure to achieve such desired savings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and curtail investment in growth opportunities.. There are risks and uncertainties associated with strategic actions and initiatives that we may implement.. From time to time, we consider various strategic actions and initiatives in order to grow and evolve our business and brands and improve our operating results. These actions and initiatives could include, among other things, acquisitions or dispositions of restaurants or brands, new joint ventures, new franchise arrangements, restaurant closures and changes to our operating model. For example, in 2017, we engaged in sale-leaseback transactions with respect to 31 restaurant properties, refranchised 54 restaurant locations, began to test our delivery model and opened our first two Express units. There can be no assurance that any such actions or initiatives will be successful or deliver their anticipated benefits. We may be exposed to new and unforeseen risks and challenges, particularly if we enter into markets or engage in activities with which we have no or limited prior experience, and it may be difficult to predict the success. 22. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. of such endeavors. If we incur significant expenses or divert management, financial and other resources to a strategic initiative that is unsuccessful or does not meet our expectations, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may also incur significant asset impairment and other charges in connection with any such initiative. Regardless of the ultimate success of a strategic initiative, the implementation and integration of new business or operational processes could be disruptive to our current operations. Even if we test and evaluate an initiative on a limited basis, the diversion of management time and resources could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business is subject to seasonal and periodic fluctuations, and past results are not indicative of future results.. Historically, consumer traffic patterns for our established restaurants are generally highest in the first quarter of the year and lowest in the third quarter of the year. Holidays may also affect sales volumes seasonally in some of the markets in which we operate. In addition, our quarterly results have been and will continue to be affected by the timing of new restaurant openings and their associated preopening costs, as well as restaurant closures and exit-related costs, debt extinguishment and modification costs and impairments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, fixtures and equipment. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full year.. Significant adverse weather conditions and other disasters or unforeseen events could negatively impact our results of operations.. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters and other unforeseen events, such as winter storms, severe temperatures, thunderstorms, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, terror attacks, war and widespread/pandemic illness, and the effects of such events on economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, could negatively impact our results of operations. Temporary and prolonged restaurant closures may occur and consumer traffic may decline due to the actual or perceived effects from these events. For example, severe winter weather conditions and hurricanes have impacted our traffic, and that of our franchises, and results of operations in recent years.. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand.. Our trademarks, including Outback Steakhouse, Carrabba's Italian Grill, Bonefish Grill, Fleming's Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar and Bloomin' Onion, and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. The protective actions that we take may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position. Furthermore, our ability to protect trademarks and other proprietary rights may be more limited in certain international markets where we operate.. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance.. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by consumers and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, \"dram shop\" statute liability, promotional advertising and other operational issues common to the food service industry, as well as contract disputes and intellectual property infringement matters. We are also subject to employee claims against us based, among other things, on discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination, disability, or violation of wage and labor laws. These claims may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. The ongoing expense of any resulting lawsuits, and any substantial settlement payment or damage award against us, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims, and fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability.. We carry insurance programs with specific retention levels or high per-claim deductibles for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers' compensation, general liability, liquor liability, employment practices liability, property, health benefits, cyber security and other insurable risks. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, if they occur, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, if our insurance costs increase, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully offset the effect of such increases and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide accurate financial information. If we are unable to adequately maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all possible error and fraud. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of error or fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial leverage and our ability to refinance our indebtedness in the future could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and expose us to interest rate risk in connection with our variable-rate debt.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $1.1 billion and we had $377.3 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, net of undrawn letters of credit of $22.7 million.. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to make payments on indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general economic, industry and competitive conditions and the various risks we face in our business;. • increasing our cost of borrowing;. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases and future business opportunities;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, restaurant development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may not be as highly leveraged.. 24. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility\"). If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.. We had $1.1 billion of variable-rate debt outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017. We also have variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements with eight counterparties to hedge a portion of the cash flows of our variable rate debt. The swap agreements have an aggregate notional amount of $400.0 million and mature on May 16, 2019. While these agreements limit our exposure to higher interest rates, an increase in the floating rate could nonetheless cause a material increase in our interest expense due to the total amount of our outstanding variable rate indebtedness.. We cannot be certain that our financial condition or credit and other market conditions will be favorable when our Senior Secured Credit Facility matures in 2022, or at any earlier time we may seek to refinance our debt. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Certain of our debt agreements limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, merge or consolidate with or into, another company. Our debt agreements require us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios. Our ability to satisfy such tests and ratios may be affected by events outside of our control.. If we breach the covenants under our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under our debt agreement. If our lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets to repay them.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and operating lease obligations, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and operating lease obligations, which may not be successful. If we fail to meet these obligations, we would be in default under our debt agreements and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under them to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations and to satisfy our operating lease obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or to pay our operating lease obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and operating lease obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations or take other actions to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets and how we may use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could otherwise realize from such dispositions and any such proceeds that are realized may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The failure to meet our debt service obligations or the failure to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our debt agreements would constitute an event of default under those agreements and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under them to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.. 25. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility.. The stock market in general is highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is similarly volatile. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in, or our ability to achieve, estimates of our operating results by analysts, investors or management, analysts' recommendations regarding our stock or our competitors' stock, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our stockholders, actions or announcements by us or our competitors, the maintenance and growth of the value of our brands, litigation, legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry, natural disasters, terrorist acts, war or other calamities and changes in general market and economic conditions.. If we are unable to continue to pay dividends or repurchase our stock, your investment in our common stock may decline in value.. In 2015, we initiated a quarterly dividend program. Our Board of Directors has also authorized several stock repurchase programs commencing in late 2014 and we have repurchased a significant amount of our stock since that time. The continuation of these programs, at all or consistent with past levels, will require the generation of sufficient cash flows and the existence of surplus earnings. Any decisions to declare and pay dividends and continue stock repurchase programs in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, borrowing capacity, contractual restrictions including debt covenants and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant at the time.. If we discontinue our dividend or stock repurchase programs, or reduce the amount of the dividends we pay or stock that we repurchase, the price of our common stock may fall. As a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include certain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in our management.. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facility includes change of control provisions that require that no stockholder or \"group\" within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act has obtained more than 40% of our voting power.. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an \"interested stockholder.\" An \"interested stockholder\" is defined to include persons owning directly or indirectly 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. Although we have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203, except that they provide that our former private equity sponsors will not be deemed to be \"interested stockholders,\" regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them, and accordingly will not be subject to such restrictions.. 26. Table of Contents. BLOOMIN' BRANDS, INC.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could make us unable to fund our capital requirements.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest."
