[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that should be considered carefully. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed below could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations, reputation, financial condition, cash flows or ability to continue current operations without any direct or indirect impairment or disruption, which is referred to throughout these Risk Factors as a \"Material Adverse Effect.\". RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of our Strategic Transformation, which could have a Material Adverse Effect.. On October 14, 2015, we announced our Strategic Transformation plans. The Strategic Transformation refers to our transformation into a technology-enabled financial solutions company comprised of TaxAct and HD Vest and the divestitures of our Search and Content business that was operated through our former InfoSpace LLC subsidiary and our E-Commerce business that consisted of the operations of Monoprice, Inc. in 2016. As part of the Strategic Transformation and our model of operating as \"One Company,\" we relocated our corporate headquarters in 2017 from Bellevue, Washington to Irving, Texas.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Strategic Transformation, including the expected operational, revenue, cost synergies, and other business synergies between our Wealth Management and Tax Preparation businesses and the level of revenue and profitability growth that we are expecting, whether attributable to regulatory limitations, operational realities, or otherwise. In addition, we have incurred and may continue to incur liabilities in connection with the Strategic Transformation, including liabilities from retention bonuses, severance payments, early termination or assignment of contracts, potential failure to meet obligations due to loss of employees or resources, and resulting litigation. We may also face difficulties, including loss of personnel, disruptions in our ongoing operations, and diversion of management's attention from ongoing operations and opportunities, as we continue to integrate our operations, technologies, products, services, IT systems, controls, benefit plans, and policies and procedures. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Strategic Transformation, it could have a Material Adverse Effect.. In connection with our Strategic Transformation, we have had a leadership transition and have replaced nearly all of our executive officers (excluding our Chief Executive Officer).  While many of our executive officers have relevant industry experience, they are new to our Company.  In addition, in connection with the relocation, we have also replaced nearly all of our corporate employees.  Changes in senior management and employee transitions are inherently disruptive and can be difficult to manage, and efforts to implement any new strategic or operating goals may not succeed in the absence of a long-term management team. Periods of transition in senior management leadership are often difficult as the new executives gain detailed knowledge of our operations and due to cultural differences that may result from changes in strategy and style. Our lack of consistent leadership that is experienced with our Company may cause concerns to third parties with whom we do business, and may increase the likelihood of turnover of our employees and, in the case of our Wealth Management business, turnover of advisors. If we are not effective in managing these leadership and employee transitions, our business could be adversely impacted and could have Material Adverse Effect.. The Tax Preparation and Wealth Management markets are very competitive, and failure to effectively compete could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Tax Preparation business operates in a very competitive marketplace. There are many competing software products and online services. Intuit's TurboTax and H&R Block's products and services have a significant percentage of the software and online service market.  Our Tax Preparation business must also compete with alternate methods of tax preparation, such as storefront tax preparation services, which includes both local tax preparers and large chains such as H&R Block, Liberty Tax, and Jackson Hewitt, and it may also be subject to new market entrants who may take some of our market share. Finally, our Tax Preparation business faces the risk that state or federal taxing agencies will offer software or systems to provide direct access for individual filers that will reduce the need for TaxAct's software and services. As digital do-it-yourself tax preparation continues to be characterized by intense competition, including heavy marketing expenditures, price-based. 11. Table of Contents. competition, and new entrants, maintaining and growing share becomes more challenging unless brand relevance, customer experience, and feature/functionality provide meaningful incremental value.  If we cannot continue to offer software and services that have quality and ease-of-use that are compelling to consumers; market the software and services in a cost-effective manner; offer ancillary services that are attractive to users; and develop the software and services at a low enough cost to be able to offer them at a competitive price point, it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Tax Preparation business also faces potential competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities developing software or other systems to facilitate tax return preparation and electronic filing at no charge to taxpayers. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue. Although the Free File Alliance, which is an Internal Revenue Service partnership that provides free electronic tax filing services to taxpayers meeting certain income-based guidelines, has kept the federal government from being a direct competitor to our tax offerings, we anticipate that governmental encroachment at both the federal and state levels may present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future. The current agreement with the Free File Alliance is scheduled to expire in October 2020.. The wealth management industry in which our Wealth Management business also operates is highly competitive, and we may not be able to maintain our customers, financial advisors, distribution network, or the terms on which we provide our products and services.  Our Wealth Management business competes based on a number of factors, including name recognition, service, the quality of investment advice, investment performance, technology, product offerings and features, price, and perceived financial strength. Competitors in the wealth management industry include broker-dealers, banks, asset managers, insurers, and other financial institutions. Many of these competitors have greater market share, offer a broader range of products, and have greater financial resources. In addition, over time certain sectors of the wealth management industry have become considerably more concentrated, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. This consolidation could result in our competitors gaining greater resources, and we may experience pressures on our pricing and market share as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices.  In addition, our Wealth Management business  seeks to differentiate itself on the basis of offering tax-smart investing advice and solutions.  There is no guarantee that this differentiation will be meaningful to our customers and potential customers, or that another competitor will not adopt a similar strategy more effectively.  In either case, our ability to compete effectively in the market could be damaged.. Poor service or performance of the financial products we offer or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products may cause our Wealth Management business customers to withdraw assets on short notice.. Customer service and investment performance are important factors in the success of our Wealth Management business.  Strong customer service and investment performance help increase customer retention and generate sales of products and services. In contrast, poor service or investment performance could impair our revenues and earnings, as well as our prospects for growth. Customers can terminate their relationships with us or our financial advisors at will.  There can be no assurance as to how future investment performance will compare to that of our competitors, and historical performance is not indicative of future returns. A decline or perceived decline in investment performance, on an absolute or relative basis, could cause a decline in sales of mutual funds and other investment products, an increase in redemptions and the termination of asset management relationships. Such actions may reduce our aggregate amount of assets under management and reduce management fees. Poor investment performance could also adversely affect our ability to expand the distribution of our products through independent financial advisors.. In addition, the emergence of new financial products or services from others, or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products, may result in the loss of accounts in our Wealth Management business.  We must also monitor the pricing of our services and financial products in relation to competitors and periodically may need to adjust commission and fee rates, interest rates on deposits and margin loans, and other fee structures to remain competitive. Competition from other financial services firms, such as reduced commissions to attract customers or trading volume, direct-to-investor online financial services, or higher deposit interest rates to attract customer cash balances, could adversely impact our business. Customers of our Wealth Management business can also reduce the aggregate amount of their assets managed by us or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences, changes in our (or our financial advisors') reputation in the marketplace, changes in customer management or ownership, loss of key investment management personnel and financial market performance. A reduction in managed assets and decrease in revenues and earnings from any of these events, could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Changes in domestic and international economic, political and other factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Our Wealth Management business operates in the United States and global financial markets, and our Tax Preparation business offers tax filing services in the United States federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions and Canada.  Accordingly, we are affected by United States and global economic and political conditions that directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the domestic and global financial markets and economies, which may be detrimental to our operating results.  In addition, because the significant majority of our revenue is derived within the United States, economic conditions in the United States have an even greater impact on us than companies with a more diverse international presence.. Domestic and international factors that could affect our business include, but are not limited to, trading levels, investing, origination activity in the securities markets, security and underlying asset valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, the supply of and demand for loans and deposits, United States and foreign government fiscal and tax policies, United States and foreign government ability, real or perceived, to avoid defaulting on government securities, inflation, decline and stress or recession in the United States and global economies generally, terrorism and armed conflicts, and natural disasters such as weather catastrophes and widespread health emergencies. Furthermore, changes in consumer economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, decreases in property values, certain life events, and the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect consumer loan levels and credit quality.. While United States and global financial markets have, at a macro level, recently experienced growth, uncertainty and potential volatility remain. A period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short-term interest rates, a return to increased credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on our business. We could experience a decline in commission revenue from lower trading volumes, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our customers, a reduction in revenue from capital markets and advisory transactions due to reduced activity, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. Periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited.. Other more specific trends may also affect our financial condition and results of operations, including, for example: changes in the mix of products preferred by investors that may cause increases or decreases in our fee revenues associated with such products, depending on whether investors gravitate towards or away from such products. The timing of such trends, if any, and their potential impact on our financial condition and results of operations are beyond our control.. Challenging economic times and changes to the tax code (personal and/or corporate), such as the recent changes passed under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, could cause potential new customers not to purchase or to delay purchasing of our products and services, and could cause our existing customers to discontinue purchasing or delay upgrades of our existing products and services, thereby negatively impacting our revenues and future financial results. Poor economic conditions and high unemployment have caused, and could in the future cause, a significant decrease in the number of tax returns filed, which may have a significant effect on the number of tax returns we prepare and file. In addition, weakness in the end-user consumer and small business markets could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers.  Any of these events could have a Material Adverse Effect.  See \"We may be negatively impacted by the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or by any future changes in tax laws\" for a discussion  of risks related to changes in the tax code.. Each of these factors could impact customer activity in all of our businesses and have a Material Adverse Effect. In addition, these factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and to grow our business.. If we are unable to attract and retain productive advisors, our financial results will be negatively impacted.. Our Wealth Management business derives a large portion of its revenues from commissions and fees generated by its advisors. Our ability to attract and retain productive advisors has contributed significantly to our growth and success. If we fail to attract new advisors or to retain and motivate our current advisors, our business may suffer.  In addition, the wealth management industry in general is experiencing a decline in the number of younger financial advisors entering the industry.  We are not immune to that industry trend.  If we are unable to replace advisors as they retire, or to assist retiring advisors with transitioning their practices to existing advisors, we could experience a decline in revenue and earnings.. The market for productive advisors is highly competitive, and we devote significant resources to attracting and retaining the most qualified advisors. In attracting and retaining advisors, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions such as wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other independent broker-dealers.. 13. Table of Contents. Financial industry competitors are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and greater compensation to attract successful financial advisors. These can be important factors in a current advisor's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective advisor's decision to join us. If we are not successful in retaining highly qualified advisors, we may not be able to recover the expense involved in attracting and training these individuals. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain the advisors needed to achieve our growth objectives. Moreover, the costs associated with successfully attracting and retaining advisors could be significant and there is no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues from those advisors' business to offset those costs.. In addition, as some of HD Vest's advisors grow their assets under management, they may decide to disassociate from HD Vest to establish their own registered investment advisers (\"RIAs\") and take customers and associated assets into those businesses.  HD Vest seeks to deter advisors from taking this route by continuously evaluating its technology, product offerings, and service, as well as its advisor compensation, fees, and pay-out policies, to ensure that HD Vest is competitive in the market and attractive to successful advisors.  We may not be successful in dissuading such advisors from forming their own RIAs, which could cause a material volume of customer assets to leave HD Vest's platform, which would reduce our revenues and could cause a Material Adverse Effect.. Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change and successfully introduce new and enhanced products and services.. The tax preparation and wealth management industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and security standards, and frequent new product introductions. Our competitors in these industries offer new and enhanced products and services every year. Consequently, customer expectations are constantly changing. We must successfully innovate and develop or offer new products and features to meet evolving customer needs and demands, while continually updating our technology infrastructure. We must devote significant resources to developing our skills, tools, and capabilities in order to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies. Our inability to quickly and effectively innovate our products, services, and infrastructure could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. We have recently begun offering our online tax preparation products and services through our mobile app. We have limited experience to date in mobile platform development, and our existing user experience may not be compelling on mobile devices. Given the speed at which new devices and platforms are being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in connection with our mobile app, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of new user experiences. If our customers don't deem our new mobile app user friendly or if they deem our competitors' mobile app more user friendly or better than ours, our market share will decline, which could have a Material Adverse Effect. In addition, we regularly make upgrades to the technology we use for our tax preparation product that are expected to provide a better user experience and help us to keep existing customers or attract new customers. If our mobile app or the other upgrades we make to the technology we use in our Tax Preparation business are not successful, it could result in wasted development costs, damage to our brands and market share, any of which could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and fees earned from management of advisory accounts.. A large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities.  Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. In addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities.  The investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. Changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. Asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. Management fees are primarily based on assets under management, which are impacted by net inflow/outflow of customer assets and market values. Below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new customers and thus further impact our business and financial condition.  If we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline.  In addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may also decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues and could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Government regulation of our business, including increased regulation or the interpretation of existing laws, rules or regulations, could have a Material Adverse Effect.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations that affect our business, such as financial services, data privacy and security requirements, tax, digital content, employment, consumer protection and fraud protection, among others. In addition, there have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government on many of the laws and regulations that affect our both our Wealth Management and our Tax Preparation businesses, as well as in areas such as insurance and healthcare.  As we complete our Strategic Transformation and expand our products and services and revise our business models, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny. Regulators may adopt new laws or regulations or their interpretation of existing laws or regulations may differ from ours as well as the laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate, and if we are found to not be in compliance with certain laws, rules or regulations, it could have a Material Adverse Effect.  Increased or new regulatory requirements or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, rules or regulations could, among other things, result in penalties or fines, impose significant limitations, require changes to our business, require certain notifications to customers, customers, or employees, restrict our use of personal information, cause our customers cease utilizing our products or services, could make our business more costly, less efficient, or impossible to conduct, may require us to modify our current or future products or services in a manner that is detrimental to our business and could result in additional compliance costs, which could have a Material Adverse Effect. The Trump Administration has called for a broad review of, and potentially significant changes to, certain U.S. laws and regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. tax code, the Department of Labor (the \"DOL\") fiduciary rule (the \"Fiduciary Rule\") and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which could result in changes that negatively affect us. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent any new or changes to existing U.S. federal laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued or the impact of any such changes on our Tax Preparation or Wealth Management businesses.  See \"The recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could have a Material Adverse Effect\" for additional risks recent changes in tax laws.. The tax preparation industry continues to receive heightened attention from federal and state governments. New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations, changes in the cybersecurity environment, litigation by the government or private entities, new interpretations of existing laws may result in greater oversight of the tax preparation industry, restrict the types of products and services that we can offer or the prices we can charge, or otherwise cause us to change the way we operate our Tax Preparation business or offer our tax preparation products and services. We may not be able to respond quickly to such regulatory, legislative and other developments, and these changes may in turn increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities. In addition, if our practices are not consistent with new interpretations of existing laws, rules or regulations, we may become subject to lawsuits, penalties, fines and other liabilities that did not previously apply. We are also required to comply with Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\") requirements and a variety of state revenue agency standards. Requirements imposed by the FTC or state agencies, including new requirements or their interpretation of existing laws, rules or regulations, could be burdensome on our business, cause us to lose market share due to product changes we are required to implement or may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner and at an acceptable price, all of which could have a Material Adverse Effect. In addition, in our Tax Preparation business, we generate revenue from certain financial products related to our tax preparation software and services. These products include prepaid debit cards on which a tax filer may receive his or her tax refund and the ability of certain of our users to have the fees for our services deducted from their tax refund. Any regulation of these products by state or federal governments, or any competing products offered by state and federal tax collection agencies, could materially and adversely impact our revenue from these financial products.. In addition, we are subject to laws, regulations, and industry rules relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. We expect regulation in this area to increase, and our current data protection policies and practices may not be sufficient and thus may require modification. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, and contractual obligations.. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and interpretations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit, and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit, and risk management personnel. While we have adopted systems, policies, and procedures reasonably designed to comply or facilitate compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and interpretations, these systems, policies, and procedures may not be fully effective. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to investigations, claims, or other actions or proceedings by regulators or third-parties with respect to our past or future compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, the outcome of which may have a Material Adverse Effect.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidance, such failure could have a Material Adverse Effect.  See \"Our Wealth Management business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with these regulations could have a Material Adverse Effect\" for additional information regarding the regulation of our business.. 15. Table of Contents. Our Wealth Management business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with these regulations could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Wealth Management business is heavily regulated by multiple agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), the DOL, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, state securities and insurance regulators, and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these regulators' laws, rules, and regulations could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct or growth, or even liquidation of, parts of our business and otherwise cause a Material Adverse Effect.. The regulatory environment in which our Wealth Management business operates is continually evolving, and the level of financial regulation to which we are subject has generally increased in recent years.  Among the most significant regulatory changes affecting our Wealth Management business is the Dodd-Frank Act, which mandates broad changes in the supervision and regulations of the wealth management industry. Regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have adopted, proposed to adopt, and may in the future adopt regulations that could impact the manner in which we will market HD Vest products and services, manage HD Vest operations, and interact with regulators. In addition, the Trump Administration has called for a broad review of, and potentially significant changes to, U.S. fiscal laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act. If such changes are enacted, they could negatively impact our Wealth Management business and cause a Material Adverse Effect.. In 2016, the DOL enacted the Fiduciary Rule, which redefines who may be considered a fiduciary under ERISA and how such fiduciaries must provide investment advice to individual retirement accounts or other accounts, the assets of which are subject to section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively, the \"Covered Accounts\"). During 2017, Covered Accounts made up over half of the assets under administration in our Wealth Management business. The Fiduciary Rule will bring virtually all of the investment products and services that our Wealth Management business currently provides to Covered Account owners within the scope of ERISA.. The DOL has delayed the effective date of key portions of the Fiduciary Rule to July 2019.  Other portions of the Fiduciary Rule, however, remain in effect, including the Impartial Conduct Standards.  The purpose of the delay is to permit the DOL to reassess the Fiduciary Rule, as well as to facilitate coordination between the DOL and the SEC on rulemaking toward possible uniform standards of conduct for all investment professionals.  We cannot predict if and when the DOL or the SEC will complete any such rulemaking or what it will entail.  Should the DOL or SEC adopt new standards of conduct and other requirements that heighten the duties of broker-dealers or investment advisers, it could result in additional compliance costs, lesser compensation, and management distraction, all of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on our business.  Because the DOL's Impartial Conduct Standards remain in effect, our Wealth Management business is required to continue good faith efforts to conform its business to these standards.  Because Covered Accounts comprise a significant portion of our business, our failure to successfully conform to these standards could negatively impact our results due to increased costs related to compliance, legal and information technology changes.. Our Wealth Management business distributes its products and services through financial advisors who affiliate with us as independent contractors. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change, or at least challenge, the classification of our financial advisors as independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified our advisors as independent contractors, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other U.S. federal or state authorities or similar authorities may determine that we have misclassified our advisors as independent contractors for employment tax or other purposes and, as a result, seek additional taxes from us or attempt to impose fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business model, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, the SEC and FINRA have extensive rules and regulations with respect to capital requirements. As a registered broker-dealer, our Wealth Management business is subject to Rule 15c3-1 (the \"Net Capital Rule\") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and related requirements of self-regulatory organizations, which specify minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. As a result of the Net Capital Rule, our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries that comprise our Wealth Management business could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to repay debt, redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, or pay dividends, which could have a Material Adverse Effect. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business.. Our Wealth Management business offers products sponsored by third parties, including but not limited to mutual funds, insurance, annuities and alternative investments. These products are subject to complex regulations that change frequently. Although we have controls in place to facilitate compliance with such regulations, there can be no assurance that our interpretation of the regulations will be consistent with various regulators' interpretations, that our procedures will be viewed as adequate by regulatory examiners, or that the operating subsidiaries will be deemed to be in compliance with regulatory requirements in all material respects. If products sold by our Wealth Management business do not perform as anticipated due to market factors or otherwise, or if product sponsors become insolvent or are otherwise unable to meet their obligations, this. 16. Table of Contents. could result in material litigation and regulatory action against us. In addition, we could face liabilities for actual or alleged breaches of legal duties to customers with respect to the suitability of the financial products we make available in our open architecture product platform or the investment advice of our financial advisors.. See \" Government regulation of our business, including increased regulation or the interpretation of existing laws, rules or regulations, could have a Material Adverse Effect\" for additional information regarding the regulation of our business.. The transition of our Wealth Management business to a new clearing platform may negatively impact our operations and our advisors and the customers of our Wealth Management business.. Our Wealth Management business has entered into a new clearing services relationship with Fidelity Clearing & Custody Solutions (\"FCCS\"), which becomes effective in September 2018 (the \"Target Date\").  The transition of our clearing business to FCCS involves significant operational, technological, and logistical effort, since it will require all HD Vest brokerage business and customer accounts to migrate to FCCS's clearing platform, together with all of the underlying customer data.  Should we experience material delays or complications in this effort, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on our business.  In addition, our advisors or customers could be dissatisfied by the process of transitioning to FCCS, or by the different technology, systems, processes, policies and products FCCS offers.  Should a significant number of advisors or customers, or assets under administration leave as a result, it could have a Material Adverse Effect.. The movement of business to a new clearing firm is an extremely complex and intensive undertaking and we have committed a significant amount of human, technological, and financial resources to ensure that the transition is successfully completed by the target date.  Given the complexity and magnitude of the transition effort, however, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience delays, unexpected costs, technological failures, incompatibility of systems or policies, or loss of employees, advisors and customers.  In completing the transition, we are dependent on key employees as well as outside contractors.  If those employees or contractors leave HD Vest or the project before completion, it could significantly delay the completion of the transition. Failure to complete the transition to FCCS by the Target Date for any reason could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. We may not realize the financial, operational, and customer-experience benefits that we project from our transition to FCCS's clearing platform.  The technology, service and product offerings presented by FCCS may not be accepted by our advisors or customers at the levels we anticipate, and may not provide the level of benefits that we expect even if accepted. We also may not realize the level of conversion of direct-to-fund assets onto FCCS's clearing platform that we anticipate.  Should the number of accounts or assets that convert to FCCS's platform fall short of expectations, we will likely receive less economic benefit from the new clearing arrangement than we expected, which could be material.  Likewise, should the Federal Reserve not increase interest rates at the pace or to the levels anticipated, we would likely recognize lower revenue from the cash-sweep program under the new clearing arrangement, potentially in a material amount.. Our Wealth Management business is dependent on the performance, liquidity and continuity of its clearing firm.  Should its clearing firm fail to provide clearing services at the contracted levels for any reason, or to suffer a liquidity event, it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our operation systems and network infrastructure is subject to significant and constantly evolving cybersecurity and other technological risks, and the security measures that we have implemented to secure confidential and personal information may be breached; a potential breach may pose risks to the uninterrupted operation of our systems, expose us to mitigation costs, litigation, investigation, fines and penalties by authorities, claims by persons whose information was disclosed, and damage to our reputation.. We collect and retain certain sensitive personal data. Our Tax Preparation and Wealth Management businesses collect, use, and retain large amounts of confidential personal and financial information from their customers, including information regarding income, assets, family members, credit cards, tax returns, bank accounts, social security numbers, and healthcare. Maintaining the integrity of our systems and networks is critical to the success of our business operations, including the retention of our customers and advisors, and to the protection of our proprietary information and our customers' personal information. A major breach of our systems or those of our third-party service providers may have materially negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and oversight by federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction services or accept and process customer credit card orders or tax returns. We may detect, or we may receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected, vulnerabilities in our servers or our software. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited.. 17. Table of Contents. In addition, hackers may develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that can be used to attack our offerings. Although we utilize network and application security measures, internal controls, and physical security procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, or loss or theft of personal information will not occur. Any such incident could cause a Material Adverse Effect and require us to expend significant resources to address these problems, including notification under data privacy regulations. In addition, our employees (including temporary and seasonal employees) and contractors may have access to sensitive and personal information of our customers, and employees. While we conduct background checks of our employees and these other individuals and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. In addition, we rely on third party vendors to host certain of our sensitive and personal information and data through cloud services. While we conduct due diligence on these third party partners with respect to their security and business controls, we may not have the ability to effectively monitor or oversee the implementation of these control measures, and, in any event, individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent and/or exploit vulnerabilities that may exist in these security and business controls, resulting in a loss of sensitive and personal customer or employee information and data.. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party liability coverages, this insurance is subject to exclusions and may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. In addition, the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents could exacerbate the harm to our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we may incur significant expenses in connection with our responses to any such attacks as well as the adoption, implementation, and maintenance of appropriate security measures. We could also suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins, inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our businesses.. Stolen identity refund fraud could impede our Tax Preparation customers' ability to timely and successfully file their tax returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish customers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our tax preparation products and services, resulting in negative publicity. Increased governmental regulation to attempt to combat that fraud could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. We and other companies offering tax preparation services (especially those offering DDIY solutions) have seen a rise in instances of criminals utilizing stolen information obtained through hacking, phishing, and other means of identity theft in order to electronically file fraudulent federal and state tax returns. As a result, impacted taxpayers must complete additional forms and go through additional steps in order to report to appropriate authorities that their identities have been stolen and their tax returns were filed fraudulently. Though we offer assistance in the refund recovery process, stolen identity refund fraud could impede our customers' ability to timely and successfully file their returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish customers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our tax preparation products and services, resulting in negative publicity, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems. In addition, if stolen identity refund fraud is perpetrated at a material level through our tax preparation products or services, state, federal, or foreign tax authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to process our customers' tax returns electronically. As a result, stolen identity fraud could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Tax Preparation business.. Federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate have taken action, and may take action in the future, in an attempt to combat stolen identity refund fraud, which may require changes to our systems and business practices in ways we cannot anticipate. These actions may have a Material Adverse Effect on our Tax Preparation business.. If we are unable to develop, manage, and maintain critical third party business relationships for our Tax Preparation and Wealth Management businesses, it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Tax Preparation and Wealth Management businesses are dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and leverage new and existing relationships. We rely on various third party partners, including software and service providers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, contractors, financial institutions, and licensing partners, among others, in many areas of these businesses to deliver our services and products. In certain instances, the products or services provided through these third party relationships may be difficult to replace or substitute, depending on the level of integration of the third party's products or services into, or with, our offerings and/or the general availability of such third party's products and services. In addition, there may be few or no alternative third party providers or vendors in the market. The failure of third parties to provide acceptable and high quality products, services, and technologies or to update their products, services, and technologies may result in a disruption to our business operations, which may materially reduce our. 18. Table of Contents. revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and customers, and damage our reputation. Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner.. Our Wealth Management business does not offer any proprietary financial products.  Instead, it distributes investment and insurance products through distribution agreements with third-party financial institutions, including banks, mutual funds, and insurance companies. These products are sold by our advisors, who are independent contractors. Maintaining and deepening relationships with these unaffiliated distributors and advisors is an important part of our growth strategy because strong third-party distribution arrangements enhance our ability to market our products and increase our assets under management, revenues, and profitability. There can be no assurance that the distribution and advisor relationships we have established will continue. Our distribution partners and advisors may cease to operate, consolidate, institute cost-cutting efforts, or otherwise terminate their relationship with us. Any such reduction in access to third-party distributors and advisors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and to generate revenue in our Wealth Management segment.  In addition, there are risks associated with our third-party clearing firm that we rely on to provide clearing services for our Wealth Management business that are discussed above.. Access to investment and insurance product distribution channels is subject to intense competition due to the large number of competitors and products in the broker-dealer, investment advisory and insurance industries. Relationships with distributors are subject to periodic negotiation that may result in increased distribution costs and/or reductions in the amount of revenue we realize based on sales of particular products or customer assets. In addition, regulatory changes (such as the Fiduciary Rule) may negatively impact our revenues and profits related to particular products or services. Any increase in the costs to distribute our products or reduction in the type or amount of products made available for sale, or revenue associated with those products, could have a Material Adverse Effect.. The seasonality of our Tax Preparation business requires a precise development and release schedule and any delays or issues with accuracy or quality may damage our reputation and could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our tax preparation software and online service must be ready to launch in final form near the beginning of each calendar year to take advantage of the full tax season. We must update the code for our software and service on a precise schedule each year to account for annual changes in tax laws and regulations and ensure that the software and service are accurate. Delayed and unpredictable changes to federal and state tax laws and regulations can cause an already tight development cycle to become even more challenging. If we are unable to meet this precise schedule and we launch our software and service late, we risk losing customers to our competitors. If we cannot develop our software with a high degree of accuracy and quality, we risk errors in the tax returns that are generated. Such errors could result in loss of reputation, lower customer retention, or legal claims, fees, and payouts related to the warranty on our software and service, which could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. The specialized and highly seasonal nature of our Tax Preparation business presents financial risks and operational challenges, which, if not satisfactorily addressed, could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Tax Preparation business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our annual revenue for such services earned in the first four months of our fiscal year. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of challenges for us, including cash and resource management during the last eight months of our fiscal year, when our Tax Preparation business generally operates at a loss and incurs fixed costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season, responding to changes in competitive conditions, including marketing, pricing, and new product offerings, which could affect our position during the tax season, and ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations and service delivery during the tax season. If we experience significant business disruptions during the tax season or if we are unable to satisfactorily address the challenges described above and related challenges associated with a seasonal business, it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. If our Tax Preparation business fails to process transactions effectively or fails to adequately protect against disputed or potential fraudulent activities, it could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Our Tax Preparation business processes a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, particularly during tax season. Due to the size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is possible that we may make errors or that fraudulent activity may affect our services. In addition to any direct damages and fines that may result from any such problems, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence in our controls may materially harm our business and damage our brand. The systems supporting our Tax Preparation business are comprised of multiple technology platforms, some of which are difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes, we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable, and timely manner, which could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. 19. Table of Contents. Our website and transaction management software, data center systems, or the systems of third-party co-location facilities and cloud service providers could fail or become unavailable or otherwise be inadequate, which could materially harm our reputation and result in a material loss of revenues and current or potential customers and customers and have a Material Adverse Effect.. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability or unreliability of our websites, transaction processing systems, or network infrastructure could materially reduce our revenue and impair our ability to properly process transactions. We use both internally developed and third-party systems, including cloud computing and storage systems, for our online services and certain aspects of transaction processing. Some of our systems are relatively new and untested and thus may be subject to failure or unreliability. Any system unavailability or unreliability may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in customer satisfaction, additional expense, or delays in reporting accurate financial information. For example, we have been migrating data to the cloud. This migration has been costly and has diverted some of management's attention and resources in order to ensure a smooth transition to the cloud.. Our data centers and cloud service could be susceptible to damage or disruption, which could have a Material Adverse Effect. Our Tax Preparation and Wealth Management businesses have business continuity plans that include secondary disaster recovery centers, but if their primary data centers fail and those disaster recovery centers do not fully restore the failed environments, our business will suffer. In particular, if such interruption occurs during the tax season, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Tax Preparation business.. Our systems and operations, and those of our third-party service providers and partners, could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, earthquakes, other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, internet breakdown, break-in, human error, software bugs, hardware failures, malicious attacks, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks, or other events beyond our control. Such damage or interruption may affect internal and external systems that we rely upon to provide our services, take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests, and host other products and services. During the period in which services are unavailable, we will be unable or severely limited in our ability to generate revenues, and we may also be exposed to liability from those third parties to whom we provide services. We could face significant losses as a result of these events, and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all potential losses, which could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings or adverse court interpretations of the laws under which the Company operates could have a Material Adverse Effect.. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability.  We are currently subject to lawsuits and are likely to be subject to litigation in the future.  In highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have historically increased. Any lawsuits to which we are subject, such as purported class actions, shareholder derivative lawsuits or claims by wealth management customers, could result in substantial expenditures, generate adverse publicity and could significantly impair our business, or force us to cease offering certain products or services. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of our management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs.  In addition, litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions brought by state or federal agencies relating to our products or services may result in additional restrictions on the offering of certain of our products or services. To the extent that any such additional restrictions or legal claims restrict our ability to offer such products or services, it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. If we are unable to hire, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our businesses.. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain, and motivate highly skilled management, technical, sales and marketing, and corporate development personnel, including personnel with experience and expertise in the wealth management, tax preparation, and technology industries to support our new strategic focus. Qualified personnel with experience relevant to our businesses are scarce, and competition to recruit them is intense. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting or expanding our businesses. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment and may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate employees.. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees. Changes of management or key employees may disrupt operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results or delay achievement of our business objectives. In addition, if we lose the services of one or more key employees and are unable to recruit and retain a suitable successor with relevant experience, we may not be able to successfully and timely manage our business or achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees.. 20. Table of Contents. We use stock options, restricted stock units, and other equity-based awards to recruit and retain senior level employees. With respect to those employees to whom we issue such equity-based awards, we face a significant challenge in retaining them if the value of equity-based awards in aggregate or individually is either not deemed by the employee to be substantial enough or deemed so substantial that the employee leaves after their equity-based awards vest. If our stock price does not increase significantly above the exercise prices of our options, we may need to issue new equity-based awards in order to motivate and retain our key employees. We may undertake or seek stockholder approval to undertake other equity-based programs to retain our employees, which may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs. There can be no assurance that any such programs, if approved by stockholders, or any other incentive programs, would be successful in motivating and retaining our employees.. We may be negatively impacted by the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or by any future changes in tax laws.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law. The change in the tax law will be effective for our 2018 calendar year financial reporting period.  The primary impacts to us include a reduction of the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% affecting our net deferred tax liabilities, repeal of corporate alternative minimum tax and associated potential refunds of prior paid taxes, and potential deductible limits of certain executive compensation.  These changes could have a material impact to the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the Company's future taxable income and effective tax rate.  The Company is continuing to analyze the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  Until such analysis is complete, the full impact of the new tax law on the Company in future periods is uncertain.. In addition, changes in tax laws, whether federal or state tax laws, require updates to our tax preparation software used in our Tax Preparation business. Such updates are costly and may be time consuming to ensure that they accurately reflect the new laws that are adopted.  It is difficult to know at this time how our customers will view the new federal tax laws that were enacted in late 2017.  Possible outcomes include a short-term or long-term increase in customers that prefer professional tax advice and preparation services rather than using our software or we may see a change in our how customers value our software services as customers may perceive their tax preparation has become simpler as a result of the new tax laws, which could result in lower demand for our products and could reduce revenue and/or the number of units sold.  Further changes in the way that state and federal governments structure their taxation regimes could also cause a Material Adverse Effect on our Tax Preparation Business. The introduction of a simplified or flattened federal or state taxation structure may make our services less necessary or attractive to individual filers, which could reduce revenue and the number of units sold. We also face risk from the possibility of increased complexity in taxation structures, which may encourage some of our customers to seek professional tax advice instead of using our software or services. In the event that such changes to tax structures cause us to lose market share or cause a decline in customers, it could cause a Material Adverse Effect.. Our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may be ineffective or leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. We are subject to the risks of errors and misconduct by our employees and financial advisors, such as fraud, non-compliance with policies, recommending transactions that are not suitable, and improperly using or disclosing confidential information. Although we have internal controls and other risk-mitigating factors in place, this type of conduct is difficult to detect and deter, and could materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are further subject to the risk of nonperformance or inadequate performance of contractual obligations by third-party vendors of products and services that are used in our businesses. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as the risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency.. In our Wealth Management business, prevention and detection of wrongdoing or fraud by our advisors, who are not our employees and tend to be located remotely from our headquarters, present unique challenges.  There cannot be any assurance that misconduct by our advisors will not lead to a Material Adverse Effect on our business.. RIAs have fiduciary obligations that require us and our advisors to act in the best interests of our customers and to disclose any material conflicts of interest.  Conflicts of interest are under growing scrutiny by U.S. federal and state regulators.  Our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business.  Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex.  A perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of customers to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions, any of which could have a Material Adverse Effect.. 21. Table of Contents. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands, which could be negatively impacted by poor performance.. Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new customers and customers. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to regulatory proceedings or other events or activities attributed to our businesses, our employees, our vendors, or our partners may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. Such damage also would require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands.. If others claim that our services infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer our services, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation, or stop marketing and licensing our services.. Companies and individuals with rights relating to the technology industry have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. These parties have in the past made and may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy or publicity rights. Responding to any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention, cause product or service release delays, or require removal or redesigning of our products or services, payment of damages for infringement, or entry into royalty or licensing agreements. Our technology, services, and products may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity's or person's rights is unclear. In addition, the ownership or scope of such rights may be altered by changes in the legal landscape, such as through developments in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court, agency, or regulatory board decisions. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or content, or license the infringed or similar technology or content, on a timely and cost-effective basis, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We do not regularly conduct patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products or services infringes patents held by third parties. Patent searches may not return every issued patent or patent application that may be deemed relevant to a particular product or service. It is therefore difficult to determine, with any level of certainty, whether a particular product or service may be construed as infringing a current or future U.S. or foreign patent.. We rely heavily on our technology and intellectual property, but we may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, thereby weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our business and financial results. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, which can be time consuming, expensive, and difficult to predict.. To protect our rights in our services and technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. We also rely on laws pertaining to trademarks and domain names to protect the value of our corporate brands and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our services or technology, obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise violate or infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that others could independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, or if others independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property, our competitive position could be materially weakened.. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our services and technology is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary assets. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective, and unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our services, use similar marks or domain names, or obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity's or person's rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court, agency, or regulatory board decisions. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of others' proprietary rights, which are sometimes not clear or may change. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, and the outcome can be difficult to predict.. We may seek to acquire companies or assets that complement our Wealth Management and Tax Preparation businesses, and if we are unsuccessful in completing any such acquisitions on favorable terms or integrating any company acquired it could result in a Material Adverse Effect.. 22. Table of Contents. We may seek to acquire companies or assets that complement our Wealth Management and Tax Preparation businesses. There can be no guarantee that any of the opportunities that we evaluate will result in the purchase by us of any business or asset being evaluated, or that, if acquired, we will be able to successfully integrate such acquisition.. If we are successful in our pursuit of any complementary acquisition opportunities, we intend to use available cash, debt and/or equity financing, and/or other capital or ownership structures designed to diversify our capital sources and attract a competitive cost of capital, all of which may change our leverage profile. There are a number of factors that impact our ability to succeed in acquiring the companies and assets we identify, including competition for these companies and assets, sometimes from larger or better-funded competitors. As a result, our success in completing acquisitions is not guaranteed. Our expectation is that, to the extent we are successful, any acquisitions will be additive to our businesses, taking into account potential benefits of operational synergies. However, these new business additions and acquisitions, if any, involve a number of risks and may not achieve our expectations, and, therefore, we could be materially and adversely affected by any such new business additions or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the short or long-term value of any business or technology that we develop or acquire will be equal to the value of the cash and other consideration that we pay or expenses we incur.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS. We incurred debt in connection with the repayment of our credit facility used for the acquisition of HD Vest and the redemption of our convertible senior notes and may incur future debt, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $345.0 million of outstanding indebtedness in the form of a term loan under a Credit Agreement to which we, and most of our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (in their capacity as guarantors), are parties. The final maturity date of the term loan is May 22, 2024. The proceeds of the term loan were used to repay in full the credit facility used for the acquisition of HD Vest and to redeem in full our convertible senior notes. We may also borrow an additional amount under this Credit Agreement of up to $50.0 million under a revolving credit arrangement.. This borrowing may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things:.  increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our businesses, to competitive pressures, and to adverse economic and industry conditions;.  requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and complementary acquisitions;.  increasing our interest payment obligations in the event that interest rates rise; and.  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.. Our Credit Agreement imposes certain restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens, incur indebtedness and make investments. In addition, our Credit Agreement includes covenants, the breach of which may cause the outstanding indebtedness to be declared immediately due and payable. This borrowing, and our ability to repay it, may also negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.. In addition, we or our subsidiaries, may incur additional debt in the future. Any additional debt may result in risks similar to those discussed above or in other risks specific to the credit agreements entered into for those debts.. Existing cash and cash equivalents, and cash generated from operations may not be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for servicing debt, working capital, and capital expenditures.. Although we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for servicing debt, working capital, and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months, the underlying levels of revenues and expenses that we project may not prove to be accurate. As of December 31, 2017, we had $345.0 million outstanding under our term loan that was entered into in May 2017. Servicing this debt will require the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flow from operations, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our businesses may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial. 23. Table of Contents. condition and results at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. In addition, we may evaluate complementary acquisitions of businesses, products, or technologies from time to time. Any such transactions, if completed, may use a significant portion of our cash balances and marketable investments. If we are unable to liquidate our investments when we need liquidity for complementary acquisitions or for other business purposes, we may need to change or postpone such acquisitions or find alternative financing for them. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings, through sales of equity, or through other arrangements. Our ability to raise funds may be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and increased uncertainty in the financial, capital, and credit markets. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable, or delayed in our ability, to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could materially harm our business.. OTHER RISKS. Our stock price has been highly volatile and such volatility may continue.. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and such volatility does not always correspond to fluctuations in the market. Between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2017, our closing stock price ranged from $4.76 to $25.90. On February 21, 2018, the closing price of our common stock was $24.50. Our stock price could decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including the other risks discussed in this report and the following:.  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations;.  impairment charges, changes in or loss of material contracts and relationships, dispositions or announcements of complementary acquisitions, or other business developments by us, our partners, or our competitors;.  conditions or trends in the tax preparation or wealth management markets or changes in market share;.  changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets;.  announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors;.  changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;.  disclosures of any accounting issues, such as restatements or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting;.  equity issuances resulting in the dilution of stockholders;.  the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards;.  adverse publicity (whether justified or not) with respect to our business; and.  announcements or publicity relating to litigation or governmental enforcement actions.. In addition, the equities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and our stock has been particularly susceptible to such fluctuations. Often, class action litigation has been instituted against companies after periods of volatility in the price of such companies' stock. We have been defendants in such class action litigation in prior periods and could be subject to future litigation, potentially resulting in substantial cost and diversion of management's attention and resources.. Our financial results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline.. Our financial results have varied on a quarterly basis and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Many factors could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate materially, including but not limited to:.  the inability of any of our businesses to meet our expectations;.  the seasonality of our Tax Preparation business and the resulting large quarterly fluctuations in our revenues;.  the success or failure of our Strategic Transformation and our ability to implement those initiatives in a cost effective manner;.  variable demand for our services, rapidly evolving technologies and markets, and consumer preferences;.  the level and mix of assets we have under management and administration, which are subject to fluctuation based on market conditions and customer activity;.  the mix of revenues generated by existing businesses, discontinued operations or other businesses that we develop or acquire;.  gains or losses driven by fair value accounting;.  litigation expenses and settlement costs;. 24. Table of Contents.  misconduct by employees and/or HD Vest financial advisors, which is difficult to detect and deter;.  expenses incurred in finding, evaluating, negotiating, consummating, and integrating acquisitions;.  impairment or negative performance of the many different industries and counterparties we rely on and are exposed to;.  any restructuring charges we may incur;.  any economic downturn, which could result in lower acceptance rates on premium products and services offered by our Wealth Management business and impact the commissions and fee revenues of our financial advisory services;.  new court rulings, or the adoption of new or interpretation of existing laws, rules, or regulations, that adversely affect our business or that otherwise increase our potential liability or compliance costs;.  impairment in the value of long-lived assets or the value of acquired assets, including goodwill, technology, and acquired contracts and relationships; and.  the effect of changes in accounting principles or standards or in our accounting treatment of revenues or expenses.. For these reasons, among others, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast our future performance. Furthermore, our fluctuating operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and financial results volatility could make us less attractive to investors, either of which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline.. Our utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") may be severely limited or potentially eliminated.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal NOLs of $519.7 million that will expire primarily between 2020 and 2027, with the majority of them expiring between 2020 and 2024. We are currently able to offset all of our tax liabilities with our NOLs, but we don't expect to generate sufficient taxable income in future years to utilize all of our NOLs prior to their expiration.  If our NOLs expire unused, their full benefit will not be achieved.  In addition, in years where our income exceeds our NOLs, which we expect to begin occurring in 2022, we will be required to make additional income tax payments.. In addition, if we were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning five percent or more of a company's common stock over a three-year rolling period), then under certain conditions, the amount of NOLs we could use in any one year could be limited. Our certificate of incorporation imposes certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock that we expect will assist us in preventing a change of ownership and preserving our NOLs, but there can be no assurance that these restrictions will be sufficient. In addition, other restrictions on our ability to use the NOLs may be triggered by a merger or acquisition, depending on the structure of such a transaction. It is our intention to limit the potential impact of these restrictions, but there can be no guarantee that such efforts will be successful.. If we are unable to use our NOLs before they expire, or if the use of this tax benefit is severely limited or eliminated, there could be a material reduction in the amount of after-tax income and cash flow from operations, and it could have an effect on our ability to engage in certain transactions.. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents that could have an anti-takeover effect include:.  the classification of our board of directors, which is being phased out between 2017 and 2020, into three groups so that directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors;.  the requirement for super majority approval by stockholders for certain business combinations;.  the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote by stockholders;.  the ability of our board of directors to amend or repeal our bylaws;.  limitations on the removal of directors;.  limitations on stockholders' ability to call special stockholder meetings;.  advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. 25. Table of Contents.  certain restrictions in our charter on transfers of our common stock designed to preserve our federal NOLs.. At our 2009 annual meeting, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation that restricts any person or entity from attempting to transfer our stock, without prior permission from the Board of Directors, to the extent that such transfer would (i) create or result in an individual or entity becoming a five-percent stockholder of our stock, or (ii) increase the stock ownership percentage of any existing five-percent stockholder. This amendment provides that any transfer that violates its provisions shall be null and void and would require the purported transferee to, upon our demand, transfer the shares that exceed the five percent limit to an agent designated by us for the purpose of conducting a sale of such excess shares. This provision in our certificate of incorporation may make the acquisition of Blucora more expensive to the acquirer and could significantly delay, discourage, or prevent third parties from acquiring Blucora without the approval of our board of directors.. 26. Table of Contents"
