[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay distributions on our units, the trading price of our units could decline and our unitholders could lose all or part of their investment.. 15. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Business. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our General Partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our units at our current distribution rate.. In order to make cash distributions on our Preferred Units at the preference distribution rate of $0.17875 per unit per quarter, or $0.715 per unit per year, and on our common units at the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.11 per unit per quarter, or $0.44 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $10.9 million per quarter, or $43.7 million per year. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions on our Preferred Units at the preference rate or on our common units at the minimum quarterly distribution rate. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described herein.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our credit facility or other debt agreements; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by our General Partner.. Our cash available for distributions to our unitholders could be negatively impacted if we are unable to extend existing storage contracts or enter into new storage contracts at our Cushing terminal.. We have a total of 6.6 million barrels of storage capacity at the Cushing terminal.  Customer storage contracts for 4.7 million barrels of storage at this location are month-to-month or expire in 2018.  We may not be able to extend, renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace.  In addition, to the degree that we operate outside of long-term contracts, our revenues can be significantly more volatile than would be the case with a pricing structure negotiated through a long-term storage contract.  If we cannot successfully renew significant contracts or must renew them on less favorable terms, our revenues from these arrangements could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on certain key customers for a portion of our revenues and are exposed to credit risks of these customers. The loss of or material nonpayment or nonperformance by any of these key customers could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on certain key customers for a portion of revenues. For example, Ergon Asphalt & Emulsions, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ergon, Inc., represented approximately $56.4 million, or 50%, of our total asphalt terminalling services revenue in 2017. Vitol represented approximately $8.9 million, or 40%, of our total crude oil terminalling revenue, $6.4 million, or 30%, of our crude oil pipeline services revenue and $5.9 million, or 24%, of our total crude oil trucking and producer field services revenue in 2017.  Vitol and Ergon are private companies and we have limited information regarding their financial condition.  Vitol and Ergon Asphalt & Emulsions, Inc. comprised 9% and 29%, respectively, of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2017.. In addition to Vitol and Ergon Asphalt & Emulsions, Inc., we have other key customers. Asphalt & Fuel Supply, LLC accounted for at least 10% but not more than 15% of total asphalt terminalling services revenue in 2017.  Citigroup Energy, Inc. and MVP Logistics, LLC each accounted for at least 10% but no more than 25% of total crude oil terminalling revenue in 2017.  MV Purchasing, LLC and DCP Operating Company, LP each accounted for at least 10% but no more than 30% of total crude oil trucking and producer field services revenue in 2017.  CP Energy, LLC and CVR Energy, Inc. each accounted for at least 20% but no more than 35% of total crude oil pipeline services revenue in 2017.. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms.  In addition, some of these key customers may experience financial problems which could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us. 16. Table of Contents. or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. Additionally, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flows from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The reduction of cash flows resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under credit facilities, the lack of availability of debt or equity financing or any combination of such factors may result in a significant reduction of our customers' liquidity and limit their ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us.  The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these key customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, unit price, results of operations and ability to conduct our business.. We are exposed to the credit risks of our third-party customers in the ordinary course of our gathering activities. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our third-party customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our third-party customers. Some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, including risks relating to commodity price deterioration or other conditions in the energy industry. In addition, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could require us to pursue substitute customers for our affected assets or to provide alternative services. Any such efforts may not be successful, may be expensive to undertake and may not provide similar fees. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our units depends primarily on our cash flows and not solely on earnings reflected in our financial statements. Consequently, even if we are profitable and are otherwise able to pay distributions, we may not be able to make cash distributions to holders of our units.. Our unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flows and not solely on earnings reflected in our financial statements, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions, if permitted by our credit agreement, during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. Our debt levels under our credit agreement may limit our ability to make distributions and our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $309.1 million in outstanding indebtedness, including approximately $1.5 million in outstanding letters of credit, under our $450.0 million credit agreement.  Our level of debt under the credit agreement could have important consequences for us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flows to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders;. • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Our ability to service debt under our credit agreement also will depend on market interest rates, since the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with the eurodollar rate or the prime rate. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all.. 17. Table of Contents. Restrictions in our credit agreement could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to unitholders and value of our units.. We are dependent upon the earnings and cash flows generated by our operations to meet our debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee certain additional debt;. • make certain cash distributions on or redeem or repurchase certain units;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • make certain capital expenditures;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another company or otherwise engage in a change of control transaction; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets.. Our credit agreement also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and meet certain financial tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet those ratios and tests.. The provisions of our credit agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities as well as affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit agreement could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, the lenders under our credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. The credit agreement also has cross default provisions that apply to any other indebtedness we may have, and the indentures have cross default provisions that apply to certain other indebtedness.. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to grow our business.. As of March 1, 2018, we have aggregate unused credit availability under our credit agreement of approximately $139.9 million, although our ability to borrow such funds may be limited by the financial covenants in our credit agreement, and cash on hand of approximately $1.3 million. Our ability to access the public capital markets on terms acceptable to us or at all may be limited due to, among other things, commodity price volatility and deterioration, general economic conditions, rising interest rates, capital market volatility, the uncertainty of our future cash flows, adverse business developments and other contingencies.  In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining a credit rating or any credit rating that we do obtain may be lower than it otherwise would be due to these uncertainties.  The lack of a credit rating or a low credit rating may also adversely impact our ability to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us or at all, and may increase significantly the costs of financing our growth potential.. If we fail to raise additional capital or an event of default occurs under our credit agreement, we may be forced to sell assets or take other action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, unit price and results of operations.  In addition, if we are unable to access the capital markets for acquisitions or expansion projects on terms acceptable to us or at all, or if the financing cost related to any such acquisitions or expansion projects increases, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, unit price, results of operations and ability to conduct our business.. If we borrow funds to make any permitted quarterly distributions, our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities may be limited and our operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Available cash for the purpose of making distributions to unitholders includes working capital borrowings. If we borrow funds to pay one or more quarterly distributions, such amounts will incur interest and must be repaid in accordance with the terms of our credit agreement. In addition, any amounts borrowed for permitted distributions to our unitholders will reduce the. 18. Table of Contents. funds available to us for other purposes under our credit agreement, including amounts available for use in connection with acquisitions and other business opportunities.  If we are unable to pursue our growth strategy due to our limited ability to borrow funds, our operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We are indirectly exposed to commodity price volatility.. Our operations have minimal direct exposure to changes in liquid asphalt and crude oil prices.  However, the volumes of liquid asphalt and crude oil we terminal, gather, market or transport are affected by commodity prices because many of our customers have direct commodity price exposure.  Many of our customers have been, and continue to be, adversely affected by significant changes in commodity prices.  If our customers continue to be negatively impacted by commodity price volatility, a sustained period of depressed commodity prices or other adverse conditions of the energy industry, they may, among other things, decrease the amount of services that we provide to them.  The prices of liquid asphalt and crude oil are inherently volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue.  Any significant reduction in the amount of services we provide to our customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our revenues from third-party customers are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically and that allow the customer to reduce or suspend performance in some circumstances, which could cause our revenues from those contracts to decline and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Some of our contract-based revenues from customers are generated under contracts with terms which allow the customer to reduce or suspend performance under the contract in specified circumstances, such as the occurrence of a catastrophic event to our or the customer's operations. The occurrence of an event which results in a material reduction or suspension of our customer's performance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our contracts with some of our customers have terms of one year or less. As these contracts expire, they must be extended and renegotiated or replaced. We may not be able to extend and renegotiate or replace these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renegotiated contracts may not be as favorable as the contracts they replace. In particular, our ability to extend or replace contracts could be harmed by numerous competitive factors, such as those described above under \"Item 1. Business - Competition.\"  We face intense competition in our terminalling, gathering, pipeline transportation and trucking activities. Competition from other providers of crude oil gathering, pipeline transportation, terminalling and trucking services that are able to supply our customers with those services at a lower price could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs if modifications to our terminals are required in order to attract substitute customers or provide alternative services. If we cannot successfully renew significant contracts or must renew them on less favorable terms, or if we incur substantial costs in modifying our terminals, our revenues from these arrangements could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain of our asphalt terminalling services contracts have short terms, and certain leases relating to our asphalt operations may be terminated upon short notice.. As of March 7, 2018, we had leases or storage agreements with third-party customers relating to each of our 56 asphalt facilities.  Lease or storage agreements related to 16 of these facilities have terms that expire by the end of 2018.  We may not be able to renew or extend our existing contracts or enter into new leases or storage agreements when such contracts expire on terms acceptable to us or at all.  In addition, certain key customers account for a significant portion of our asphalt terminalling services revenues, the loss of which could result in a significant decrease in revenues from our asphalt operations.  A significant decrease in the revenues we receive from our asphalt operations could result in violations of covenants under our credit agreement and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, the price of our units, our results of operations and ability to conduct our business.. In addition, certain of our asphalt facilities are located on land that we lease from third parties.  Some of these leases may be terminated by the lessor with as short as thirty days' notice.  We also have not yet received consent from certain of the lessors to sublease such facilities, which may result in a default under such lease or invalidate the subleases.  If such leases were terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide asphalt terminalling services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, unit price, results of operations and ability to conduct our business.  In addition, in certain instances we have not entered into new leases with a lessor, although we continue to operate under expired leases and make payments to the lessor and are in the process of negotiating new leases.  If it were determined that we did not have rights under these expired leases, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our asphalt operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and could incur substantial liabilities as a result.. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of changing market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially in the future. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, ability to make distributions to our unitholders, unit price, results of operations and ability to conduct our business.. A significant decrease in demand for liquid asphalt and/or crude oil products in the areas served by our operations could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. A sustained decrease in demand for liquid asphalt and/or crude oil products in the areas served by our terminalling facilities and pipelines could significantly reduce our revenues and, therefore, reduce our ability to make or increase distributions to our unitholders. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand for liquid asphalt and crude oil products include:. • lower demand by consumers for refined products, including asphalt products, as a result of (i) recession or other adverse economic conditions; (ii) higher prices caused by an increase in the market price of crude oil; or (iii) higher taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline or other refined products; and. • a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy of vehicles, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, governmental or regulatory actions or otherwise.. Certain of our pipeline and field operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not vary with the volumes we gather and transport. These costs and expenses may not decrease ratably or at all should we experience a reduction in our volumes gathered or transported by our operations. As a result, we may experience declines in our margin and profitability if our volumes decrease.. A material decrease in the production of liquid asphalt could materially reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The throughput at our asphalt facilities depends on the availability of attractively priced liquid asphalt produced from the various liquid asphalt producing refineries. Liquid asphalt production may decline for a number of reasons, including refiners processing more light, sweet crude oil or refiners installing coker units which further refine heavy residual fuel oil bottoms such as liquid asphalt. If our customers are unable to replace volumes lost due to a temporary or permanent material decrease in production from the suppliers of liquid asphalt, our throughput could decline, reducing our revenue and cash flows and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.. A material decrease in the production of crude oil from the oil fields served by our pipelines could materially reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The throughput on our crude oil pipelines depends on the availability and demand for transportation and storage of crude oil produced from the oil fields served by such pipelines or through connections with pipelines owned by third parties. Crude oil production may decline for a number of reasons, including natural declines due to depleting wells, a material decrease in the price of crude oil or the inability of producers to obtain necessary drilling or other permits from applicable governmental authorities.  If commodity prices remain depressed for any sustained period of time, production may slow and our customers may decrease the volumes we transport or store for them. If we are unable to replace volumes lost due to a temporary or permanent material decrease in production from the oil fields served by our crude oil pipelines, our throughput could decline, reducing our revenue and cash flows and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, it is difficult to attract producers to a new gathering system if the producer is already connected to an existing system. As a result, third-party shippers on our pipeline systems may experience difficulty acquiring crude oil at the wellhead in areas where there are existing relationships between producers and other gatherers and purchasers of crude oil.. 20. Table of Contents. We face intense competition in our terminalling, gathering and transportation activities. Competition from other providers of crude oil terminalling, gathering and transportation services that are able to supply our customers with those services at a lower price could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to competition from other crude oil terminalling, gathering, and transportation operations that may be able to supply our customers with the same or comparable services on a more competitive basis. We compete with national, regional and local gathering, terminalling and pipeline companies, including the major integrated oil companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these competitors are substantially larger than us, have greater financial resources, and control substantially greater storage capacity than we do. Our ability to compete could be harmed by numerous factors, including:. • price competition;. • the perception that another company can provide better service; and. • the availability of alternative supply points, or supply points located closer to the operations of our customers.. If we are unable to compete with services offered by other midstream enterprises, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Some of our pipeline systems are dependent upon interconnections with other crude oil pipelines to reach end markets.. Some of our pipeline systems are dependent upon their interconnections with other crude oil pipelines to reach end markets. Reduced throughput on these interconnecting pipelines as a result of testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in reduced throughput on our pipeline systems which would adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and results of operations.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited.. Our ability to grow in the future will depend, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated per unit from operations.  Ergon has indicated that it intends to use us as a growth vehicle to pursue the acquisition and expansion of midstream energy businesses and assets.  We cannot say with any certainty whether or not Ergon will develop any projects or, if they do, which, if any, of these future acquisition opportunities may be made available to us, or if we will choose to pursue any such opportunity.. We may also make acquisitions directly from third parties.  If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions because we are (i) unable to acquire projects from such a development company when they are available; (ii) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; (iii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or (iv) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions may be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit.. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things:. • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies;. • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire;. • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and assets;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly and our unitholders likely will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. 21. Table of Contents. If we acquire assets that are distinct and separate from our existing terminalling, gathering and transportation operations, it could subject us to additional business and operating risks.. We may acquire assets that have operations in new and distinct lines of business from our liquid asphalt or crude oil operations. Integration of a new business is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired entities' lines of business with our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of integrating a new business with our existing operations include, among other things:. • operating distinct businesses which require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise;. • the necessity of coordinating organizations, systems and facilities in different locations;. • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and. • consolidating corporate and administrative functions.. In addition, the diversion of our attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of a new business, such as unanticipated liabilities or costs, could harm our existing business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, new lines of business may subject us to additional business and operating risks. For example, we may in the future determine to acquire businesses that are subject to direct exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. These new business and operating risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Expanding our business by constructing new assets subjects us to risks that projects may not be completed on schedule and that the costs associated with projects may exceed our expectations and budgets, which could cause our cash available for distribution to our unitholders to be less than anticipated.. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing assets and the construction of new assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties and requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these types of projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or within the budgeted cost. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand in a market in which such growth does not materialize.. Our expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flows.. Expansion projects require us to make significant capital investments over time and we will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows we expect these projects to generate will not materialize, if at all, until sometime after the projects are completed and placed into service. As a result, to the extent we finance our projects with borrowings, our leverage may increase during the period prior to the generation of those operating cash flows and, to the extent we finance our projects with equity, our cash available for distribution on a common unit basis may decrease during the period prior to the generation of those operating cash flows. If we experience unanticipated or extended delays in generating operating cash flows from construction projects, or if such operating cash flows do not materialize as expected, we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget in order to meet our capital requirements, and our liquidity and capital position could be adversely affected.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program requirements and any necessary pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for pipelines that could affect \"high consequence areas\" including populated areas, areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. The regulations require operators of covered pipelines to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. 22. Table of Contents. Effective July 2008, the DOT broadened the scope of coverage of its existing pipeline safety standards, including its integrity management programs, to include certain rural onshore hazardous liquid and low-stress pipeline systems found near \"unusually sensitive areas,\" including non-populated areas requiring extra protection because of the presence of sole source drinking water resources, endangered species or other ecological resources. Also, in December 2006, the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006 (\"PIPES\") was enacted. PIPES reauthorized and amended the DOT's pipeline safety programs and included a provision eliminating the regulatory exemption for low-stress hazardous liquid pipelines. The Pipeline Safety Act established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required the DOT to study safety issues that could result in the adoption of additional regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. On August 13, 2012, PHMSA published rules to update pipeline safety regulations, including increasing maximum civil penalties from $0.1 million to $0.2 million per day of violation and from $1.0 million to $2.0 million total for a related series of violations, as well as changing PHMSA's enforcement process. This maximum penalty authority established by statute has been and will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation. PHMSA also issued an Advisory Bulletin in May 2012 which advised pipeline operators that they must have records to document the maximum operating pressure for each section of their pipeline and that the records must be traceable, verifiable and complete.  Locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing (including hydrostatic testing) or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of verifiable pressures, could significantly increase an operator's costs of compliance. On January 23, 2017, PHMSA published a final rule that became effective on March 24, 2017.  This rule amended the Pipeline Safety Act to include, among other provisions, a specific time frame for notifying PHMSA of accidents and incidents, allowance for PHMSA to recover costs associated with design reviews of new projects, renewal of expiring special permits, processes for requesting protection of confidential commercial information, changes to the drug and alcohol testing requirements and incorporating consensus standards by reference for in-line inspection and Stress Corrosion Cracking Direct Assessment.  Please read \"Item 1. Business-Pipeline Regulation-Pipeline Safety\" for more information.. Our operations are subject to environmental and worker safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Violators of environmental laws and regulations are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. We may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required environmental permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to the legality of the original conduct under CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Moreover, new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs and the costs of any remediation that may become necessary, some of which may be material.. We incur environmental costs and liabilities in connection with the handling of hydrocarbons and solid wastes. We currently own, operate or lease properties which for many years have been used for asphalt activities and midstream activities, including properties in and around the Cushing Interchange. Activities by us or by prior owners, lessees or users of these properties over whom we had no control may have resulted in the spill or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes on or under them. Additionally, some sites we own or operate are located near current or former terminal and pipeline operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies, as well as claims for damages and other similar developments, could result in significant costs and liabilities, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could suffer as a result. Please see \"Item 1-Business-Environmental, Health, and Safety Risks\" for more information.. In addition, the workplaces associated with the terminalling facilities and pipelines we operate are subject to OSHA requirements and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. The OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local government authorities and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, recordkeeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could subject us to fines or significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. Table of Contents. Adoption of legislation and regulatory measures targeting GHG emissions could affect our operations, expose us to significant costs and liabilities, and reduce demand for the products we transport.. The crude oil and petroleum-based product business is a direct source of certain GHG emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact our future operations. Federal legislation requiring GHG controls has been considered in the past but has not been enacted.  The EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA which require PSD pre-construction permits and Title V operating permits for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. These EPA rulemakings could affect our operations by effectively reducing demand for motor fuels from crude oil and could affect our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Furthermore, in 2009, the EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified sources in the United States, including, among others, certain onshore oil and natural gas processing and fractionating facilities. Monitoring obligations began in 2010 and the emissions reporting requirements took effect in 2011. Some of our facilities include natural gas-fired combustion units which may become subject to this rule. These facilities are required to annually calculate their GHG emissions to determine whether they trigger reporting and monitoring requirements. To date, none of our facilities have exceeded the thresholds established for reporting or monitoring requirements. Although this rule does not control GHG emission levels from any of our facilities, it has caused us to incur monitoring and reporting costs relating to GHG emissions.  We also note, as previously mentioned, that the EPA finalized rules that took effect in August 2016 to set standards for methane and volatile organic compound emissions from new and modified sources in the oil and gas sector, including transmission.  However, the EPA is currently engaged in rulemaking to stay the effective date of these rules. We continue to monitor and review these regulations to determine future impacts, including potential reporting requirements.  Legislation and regulations relating to control or reporting of GHG emissions are also in various stages of discussions or implementation in many of the states in which we operate.. Passage of climate change legislation or other federal or state legislative or regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict GHG emissions in areas in which we conduct business or that have the effect of requiring or encouraging reduced consumption or production of crude oil and petroleum-based products could potentially:. • adversely affect the demand for our products and services;. • affect our operations and ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities;. • increase the costs to operate and maintain our facilities;. • increase the costs of our business by requiring us to acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions (e.g., for natural gas-fired combustion units);. • increase the costs of our business by requiring us to pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and/or administer and manage a GHG emissions program; and. • increase the costs or availability of goods and services as a result of impacts on entities that provide goods and services to us.. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-related physical changes or changes in weather patterns.  A loss of coastline in the vicinity of our facilities or an increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impact our ability to conduct operations and/or result in a disruption of our customers' operations.  These kinds of physical changes could also affect entities that provide goods and services to us and indirectly have an adverse effect on our business as a result of increases in costs or availability of goods and services.  Changes of this nature could have a material adverse impact on our business. Finally, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their greenhouse gas emissions.  Should we be targeted by any such litigation, we may incur liability which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to our causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors.. A portion of our customers' production is developed from unconventional sources, such as shales, which require hydraulic fracturing as part of the production process.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into shale formations to stimulate crude oil and/or gas production.  The practice of hydraulic fracturing has been subject to public scrutiny in recent years and various efforts to regulate, or in some cases prohibit, hydraulic fracturing have been pursued at the local, state and federal levels of government and may be pursued in the future.  For example, several states, including states in which we operate, have imposed disclosure requirements on hydraulic fracturing, and several local governments have prohibited or severely restricted hydraulic fracturing within their jurisdictions.  Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could adversely affect our operations by reducing the volumes of crude oil that we transport.. 24. Table of Contents. Additionally, the ESA restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats.  While some of our operations may be located in areas that are designated as habitats for endangered or threatened species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the ESA.  However, the designation of previously unlisted endangered or threatened species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans or limit future development in the affected areas.  The MBTA implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds.  Pursuant to the MBTA, the taking, killing or possessing of migratory birds is unlawful without a permit, thereby potentially requiring the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal or permanent ban in affected areas. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the MBTA, but noncompliance could result in fines or operational prohibitions which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Please also see \"Item 1. Business-Environmental, Health and Safety Risks-Climate.\". Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, including adverse weather conditions, which could cause us to incur substantial liabilities.. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the transportation and terminalling of crude oil and the terminalling of liquid asphalt cement, including:. • explosions, earthquakes, fires and accidents, including road and highway accidents involving our tanker trucks;. • extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf Coast, and tornadoes and flooding, which are common in the Midwest and other areas of the United States in which we operate;. • damage to our terminals, pipelines and equipment;. • leaks or releases of crude oil into the environment; and. • acts of terrorism or vandalism.. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues.. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities and pipelines are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our asphalt and crude oil facilities and pipelines have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if rights-of-way or any material real property leases are invalid, lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate some of our asphalt and crude oil facilities and pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights through our inability to renew leases, right-of-way contracts or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.  In addition, we are in the process of obtaining consents from the lessors for certain leased property that was transferred to us as part of the acquisition of our asphalt assets.  If any consent is denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We could experience increased severity or frequency of accidents and other claims.. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers' compensation claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could materially adversely affect our results of operations.  In the event that accidents occur, we may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and our insurance may prove inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations could result in substantial losses.. 25. Table of Contents. Changes in trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. Our trucking services are subject to regulation as a motor carrier by the DOT and by various state agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of state highway, and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing and specifications and insurance requirements.  There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements.  The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations and affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for or the costs of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent fuel emission limits, changes in the regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, limits on vehicle weight and size and other matters, including safety requirements.. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business.  Terrorist or cyber-attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers.  Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States.  We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible exposures resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business.  Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls.  It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Ergon controls our General Partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations.  Our General Partner has conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of our unitholders.. Ergon owns and controls our General Partner.  Some of our General Partner's directors are directors and officers of Ergon.  Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand.  In resolving those conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Although the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our General Partner (the \"Board\") may review such conflicts of interest, the Board is not required to submit such matters to the conflicts committee. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our General Partner or Ergon to pursue a business strategy that favors us.  Such persons may make decisions in their best interest, which may be contrary to our interests.. • Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us and our unitholders, such as Ergon and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest.. • If we do not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus, our General Partner could cause us to use cash from non-operating sources, such as asset sales, issuances of securities and borrowings, to pay distributions, which means that we could make distributions that deteriorate our capital base and that our General Partner could receive distributions on its incentive distribution rights to which it would not otherwise be entitled if we did not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus to make such distributions.. • Ergon is a holder of our Preferred Units and may favor its own interests in actions relating to such units, including causing us to make distributions on such units even if no distributions are made on the common units.. • Ergon may compete with us, including with respect to future acquisition opportunities.. • Ergon may favor its own interests in proposing the terms of any acquisitions we make directly from them, and such terms may not be as favorable as those we could receive from an unrelated third party.. • Our General Partner has limited liability and reduced fiduciary duties and our unitholders have restricted remedies available for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. 26. Table of Contents. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders.. • Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders.. • Our General Partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of our General Partner or our unitholders.. • Our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us.. • Our General Partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units.. • Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates.. • Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties our General Partner owes to holders of our units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its right to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement;. • provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the Board acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be \"fair and reasonable\" to us, as determined by our General Partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us;. • provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision, our General Partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. 27. Table of Contents. Ergon may compete with us, which could adversely affect our existing business and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses.. Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement with Ergon prohibits Ergon from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.  In addition, Ergon may acquire, construct or dispose of assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets.  Ergon is a privately held company engaged in a wide range of operations. Ergon has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with Ergon with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates.  As a result, competition from Ergon could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution.. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our General Partner, may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our General Partner is entitled to receive reimbursement for the payment of expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services may be substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our General Partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our General Partner. To the extent our General Partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated under our partnership agreement to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our General Partner, our General Partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Holders of our Preferred Units and common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the Board and have no right to elect our General Partner or the Board on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board is chosen by Ergon. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our General Partner. Amendments to our partnership agreement may be proposed only by or with the consent of our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Ergon, the owner of our General Partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board and officers of our General Partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the Board and officers.. We may issue additional units without approval of our unitholders, which would dilute our unitholders' ownership interests.. Except in the case of the issuance of units that rank equal to or senior to the Preferred Units, our partnership agreement does not limit the number or price of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, because we are a limited partnership, we will not be subject to the shareholder approval requirements relating to the issuance of securities (other than in connection with the establishment or material amendment of a stock option or purchase plan or the making or material amendment of any other equity compensation arrangement) contained in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5635.  The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank may have any or all of the following effects, among others:. • Our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease.. • The amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease.. • The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase.. • The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished.. • The market price of the common units may decline.. 28. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders, other than our General Partner and its affiliates, including Ergon, owning 20% or more of any class of our partnership securities.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement, which provides that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions.. Even if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with our General Partner, it will be difficult for them to remove our General Partner without its consent.. It will be difficult for our public unitholders to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own a substantial number of our units. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the General Partner. As of March 1, 2018, Ergon owned approximately 28.3% of our aggregate outstanding Preferred Units and common units.. Affiliates of our General Partner may sell units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the units.. As of March 1, 2018, the executive officers and directors of our General Partner beneficially own an aggregate of 1,037,212 common units and 20,400 Preferred Units and Ergon owns 3,049,187 common units and 18,312,968 Preferred Units. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the public trading price of the units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of any class of units then outstanding, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of such class of units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of March 1, 2018, Ergon owned 52.1% of our outstanding Preferred Units.. Holders of our Preferred Units have a distribution preference and a liquidation preference, which may adversely impact the value of our common units.. The Preferred Units rank prior to our common units as to both distributions of available cash and distributions upon liquidation.  Holders of our Preferred Units are entitled to preferred quarterly distributions of $0.17875 per unit per quarter (or $0.7150 per unit on an annual basis).  If we fail to pay in full any distribution on our Preferred Units, the amount of such unpaid distribution will accrue and accumulate from the last day of the quarter for which such distribution is due until paid in full.  If we are liquidated, we may not have sufficient funds remaining after payment of amounts to our creditors and to holders of our Preferred Units to make any distribution to holders of our common units.. The conversion rate applicable to the Preferred Units will not be adjusted for all events that may be dilutive.. The number of our common units issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Units is subject to adjustment only for subdivisions, splits or certain combinations of our common units. The number of common units issuable upon conversion is not subject to adjustment for other events, such as employee option grants, offerings of our common units for cash or in connection with acquisitions or other transactions that may increase the number of outstanding common units and dilute the ownership of existing common unitholders. The terms of the Preferred Units do not restrict our ability to offer common units in the future or to engage in other transactions that could dilute our common units.. 29. Table of Contents. We have rights to require our preferred unitholders to convert their Preferred Units into common units, and we may exercise this mandatory conversion right at an undesirable time.. We have the right in certain circumstances to force the conversion of all outstanding Preferred Units to common units.  These circumstances include a situation in which if the holders of a certain number of Preferred Units elect to convert the Preferred Units that they hold to common units, we could then force all remaining outstanding Preferred Units to convert to common units.  Ergon, the owner of our General Partner, owns enough Preferred Units such that if they were all converted to common units, we would be able to exercise this mandatory conversion right.  In addition, we also have the right, effective October 25, 2015, to force the conversion of the outstanding Preferred Units at any time if (i) the daily volume-weighted average trading price of our common units is greater than $8.45 for 20 out of the trailing 30 trading days ending two trading days before we furnish notice of conversion and (ii) the average trading volume of our common units has exceeded 20,000 common units for 20 out of the trailing 30 trading days ending two trading days before we furnish notice of conversion. In addition, the conversion provisions may be modified with the consent of a majority of the outstanding Preferred Units.  As of March 1, 2018, Ergon owned 52.1% of our outstanding Preferred Units and has the ability to consent to amendments to such conversion provisions. As a result, our preferred unitholders may be required to convert their Preferred Units at an undesirable time and may not receive their expected return on investment.. Ergon, as the holder of a majority of the outstanding Preferred Units, has the ability to consent to the amendments to the provisions of the Preferred Units.. The Preferred Units have voting rights that are identical to the voting rights of common units and vote with the common units as a single class, so that each Preferred Unit is entitled to one vote for each common unit into which such Preferred Unit is convertible on each matter with respect to which each common unit is entitled to vote. In addition, the approval of a majority of the Preferred Units, voting separately as a class, is necessary on any matter that adversely affects any of the rights of the Preferred Units or amends or modifies the terms of the Preferred Units in any material respect or affects the holders of the Preferred Units disproportionately in relation to the holders of common units, including, without limitation, any action that would (i) reduce the distribution amount to the Preferred Units or change the time or form of payment of distributions, (ii) reduce the amount payable to the Preferred Units upon the liquidation of our partnership, (iii) modify the conditions relating to the conversion of the Preferred Units or (iv) issue any equity security that, with respect to distributions or rights upon liquidation, ranks equal to or senior to the Preferred Units or issue any additional Preferred Units.  As of March 1, 2018, Ergon owned 52.1% of our outstanding Preferred Units and has the ability to consent to amendments to the terms of the Preferred Units without the consent of other unitholders.. Holders of the Preferred Units will not have rights to distributions as holders of common units until they acquire our common units.. Until our preferred unitholders acquire common units upon conversion of the Preferred Units, such preferred unitholders will have no rights with respect to distributions on our common units. Upon conversion, our preferred unitholders will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of our common units only as to matters for which the record date occurs after the date on which such Preferred Units were converted to our common units.. The Preferred Units are limited partner interests in our partnership and therefore are subordinate to any indebtedness.. The Preferred Units are limited partner interests in our partnership and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Preferred Units will rank junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on our partnership with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on our partnership, including in a liquidation of our partnership.. Units held by persons who are not Eligible Holders will be subject to the possibility of redemption.. Our General Partner has the right under our partnership agreement to institute procedures, by giving notice to each of our unitholders, that would require transferees of units and, upon the request of our General Partner, existing holders of our units to certify that they are Eligible Holders. The purpose of these certification procedures would be to enable us to establish a federal income tax expense as a component of the pipeline's cost of service for ratemaking purposes under current FERC policy applicable to entities that pass through their taxable income to their owners. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity's owners are subject to such taxation. If these tax certification procedures are implemented, we will have the right to redeem the units held by persons who are not Eligible Holders at the lesser of the. 30. Table of Contents. holder's purchase price and the then-current market price of the units. The redemption price would be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner.. Market interest rates may affect the value of our units.. One of the factors that will influence the price of our units will be the distribution yield on our units relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates could cause the market price of the units to go down. The trading price of the units will also depend on many other factors, which may change from time to time, including:. • the market for similar securities;. • government action or regulation;. • general economic conditions or conditions in the financial markets; and. • our financial condition, performance and prospects.. Our unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business.. Our unitholders could be liable for our obligations as if they were a general partner if:. • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • a unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 and 17-804 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. In addition, potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosure in the future.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide timely and reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continue to enhance our internal controls and financial reporting capabilities. These enhancements require a significant commitment of resources, personnel and the development and maintenance of formalized internal reporting procedures to ensure the reliability of our financial reporting. Our efforts to update and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting now or in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As further described below in \"Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,\" as of December 31, 2017, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.  Any failure to maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in the effective improvement of our internal controls could prevent us from timely and reliably reporting our financial results. 31. Table of Contents. and may harm our operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Any significant change in accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to comply with our debt obligations.. Tax Risks to Unitholders. Recently enacted tax legislation as well as future tax legislation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the 2017 budget reconciliation act commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\"), which makes significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws. Among other changes, the TCJA (i) introduces a new deduction on certain pass-through income, (ii) repeals the partnership technical termination rule, (iii) imposes a new limitation on the deductibility of interest expense, (iv) reduces the corporate tax rate to 21% and (v) limits the amount of net operating losses that are available to offset the taxable income of our corporate subsidiaries.  The TCJA is complex and far-reaching and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our common unitholders have been and will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they have not received or do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our common unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, even if our common unitholders receive no cash distributions from us.  Our common unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  If less than 90% of the gross income of a publicly traded partnership, such as us, for any taxable year is \"qualifying income\" from sources such as the transportation, marketing (other than to end users) or processing of crude oil, natural gas or products thereof, interest, dividends or similar sources, that partnership will be taxable as a corporation under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes for that taxable year and all subsequent years.  We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates.  Distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.  Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our units.. In addition, changes to the audit procedures for large partnerships and in certain circumstances for tax years beginning after 2017 would permit the IRS to assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from partnership-level federal income tax audits directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed.  If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.  Moreover, changes in current state law may subject us to entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay annually a Texas franchise tax on our total revenue, as adjusted and apportioned to the state under the applicable Texas rules and regulations, at a maximum effective tax rate of 0.525%.  Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. 32. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. No such adjustments have been made to date, but there can be no assurance that no such adjustments will be made in the future.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time.  Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively.  Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our common units.  For example, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units.. If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any such contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. There are limits on the deductibility of losses that may adversely affect unitholders.. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive activity loss rules (generally individuals, closely-held corporations and regulated investment companies), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of the unitholder's entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party.  A unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships.. Further, in addition to the other limitations described above, non-corporate taxpayers may only deduct business losses up to the gross income or gain attributable to such trade or business plus $250,000 ($500,000 for unitholders filing jointly). Amounts that may not be deducted in a taxable year may be carried forward into the following taxable year. This limitation shall be applied after the passive loss limitations and, unless amended, applies only to taxable years beginning prior to December 31, 2025.. Our ability to deduct business interest is limited under the TCJA and is expected to increase our taxable income allocable to our unitholders.. Our ability to deduct interest on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business (which excludes investment interest) will be limited to an amount equal to the sum of (i) our business interest income during the taxable year and (ii) 30% of our adjusted taxable income for such taxable year.  Disallowed interest deductions will be allocated to our unitholders and will be available to offset our future excess taxable income allocated to such unitholders.  A unitholder's tax basis in our interests will be reduced by the amount of disallowed interest deductions allocated to such unitholder, even if such amounts do not give rise to a deduction to the unitholder in that taxable year.  Such unitholder's tax basis in its partnership interests will be subsequently increased immediately prior to any disposition by such unitholder of its interest in us in an amount equal to the difference between the prior basis reduction and the amount of the disallowed interest that has subsequently been used to offset excess taxable income of the unitholder.. 33. Table of Contents. The limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense described above also applies to our corporate subsidiaries; however, disallowed interest deductions will be carried forward by our corporate subsidiaries and treated as business interest paid or accrued in the succeeding taxable year. The deductibility of such business interest expense carried forward from a prior taxable year will be subject to the limitation described above.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions to a unitholder that exceed the total net taxable income allocated to the unitholder decrease the unitholder's tax basis in his or her units, any such prior excess distribution will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common units are sold by the unitholder at a price greater than their tax basis, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the original cost.  Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the selling unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our non-recourse liabilities, a unitholder who sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed.  If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.  In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year.. Tax-exempt entities and non-United States persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), pension plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a potential unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, it should consult its tax advisor before investing in our units.. Pursuant to the TCJA, if a non-U.S. unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10% of the amount realized by the non-U.S. transferor, and we are required to deduct and withhold from distributions to the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and/or amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from their sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns.. 34. Table of Contents. Our unitholders likely will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing or withholding requirements in states in which they do not live as a result of investing in our units.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in certain of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in several states, most of which currently impose income taxes on corporations, and many of which impose income taxes on other entities and nonresident individuals.  We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns. Under the tax laws of some states where we conduct business, we may be required to withhold a percentage from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of that state. For example, in the case of Oklahoma, we are required to either obtain a withholding exemption affidavit from and generally report detailed tax information about our non-Oklahoma resident unitholders or withhold an amount equal to 5% of the portion of our distributions to unitholders which is deemed to be the Oklahoma share of our income.. We hold certain assets located at certain of our liquid asphalt facilities in a subsidiary taxed as a corporation.  Such subsidiary is subject to entity-level federal and state income taxes on its net taxable income and, if a material amount of entity-level taxes were incurred, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. We hold certain of our liquid asphalt processing assets and related fee income through BKEP Asphalt, L.L.C., a subsidiary taxed as a corporation. Such subsidiary is required to pay federal income tax on its income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and will likely pay state (and possibly local) income tax at varying rates. Distributions from such subsidiary will generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions and none of the income, gains, losses, deductions or credits of such subsidiary will flow through to our unitholders. Currently, the maximum federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from such subsidiary which is allocable to individuals is 20% plus an unearned Medicare tax of 3.8%.  An individual unitholder's share of dividend and interest income from such subsidiary would constitute portfolio income which could not be offset by the unitholder's share of our other losses or deductions. If a material amount of entity-level taxes is incurred by such subsidiary, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our common unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued final Treasury regulations pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders, although such tax items must be prorated on a daily basis.  However, these Treasury regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted.  If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, such unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. 35. Table of Contents. Unitholders converting Preferred Units into common units could under certain limited circumstances receive a gross income allocation that may materially increase the taxable income allocated to such unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement and in accordance with Treasury regulations, immediately after the conversion of a Preferred Unit, we will adjust the capital accounts of all of our partners to reflect any positive difference (\"Unrealized Gain\") or negative difference (\"Unrealized Loss\") between the fair market value and the carrying value of our assets at such time as if such Unrealized Gain or Unrealized Loss had been recognized on an actual sale of each such asset for an amount equal to its fair market value at the time of such conversion.  Such Unrealized Gain or Unrealized Loss (or items thereof) will be allocated first to the converting preferred unitholder in respect to common units received upon the conversion until the capital account of each such common unit is equal to the per unit capital account for each existing common unit.  This allocation of Unrealized Gain or Unrealized Loss will not be taxable to the converting preferred unitholder or to any other unitholders.  If the Unrealized Gain or Unrealized Loss allocated as a result of the conversion of a Preferred Unit is not sufficient to cause the capital account of each common unit received upon such conversion to equal the per unit capital account for each existing common unit, then capital account balances will be reallocated among the unitholders as needed to produce this result.  In the event that such a reallocation is needed, a converting preferred unitholder would be allocated taxable gross income in an amount equal to the amount of any such reallocation to it.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time.  For example, from time to time, the President and members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships.  Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the requirements that must be satisfied in order for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.  Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner which subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. On January 24, 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS published final regulations (the \"Final Regulations\") regarding qualifying income under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code. The Final Regulations provide guidance on the activities that generate qualifying income. In addition, under special transition rules, publicly traded partnerships are permitted to treat income from certain activities that the partnership engaged in prior to May 6, 2015, and that would not otherwise be considered to generate qualifying income under the Final Regulations, as qualifying income for 10 years.  Under the Final Regulations, income we realize from the blending and storage of asphalt emulsions and certain types of polymer modified asphalt products, which we have historically treated as generating qualifying income, might be considered to no longer constitute qualifying income.  Moreover, we may not be able to apply the special transition rules with respect to a portion of such income.  In such cases, we may determine to transfer part of the assets that are used to generate such income, as well as the income itself, to a subsidiary taxed as a corporation.  Any such subsidiary would be subject to entity-level federal and state income taxes on its net taxable income and, if a material amount of entity-level taxes were incurred, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. 36. Table of Contents. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss or deduction between our General Partner and our common unitholders.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our outstanding units.. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our common unitholders and our General Partner.  Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets.  In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss or deduction between certain common unitholders and our General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders.  Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets.  The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss or deduction between our General Partner and certain of our common unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our common unitholders.  It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of the units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Compliance with and changes in tax law could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise and ad valorem taxes.  New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future.  Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority.  These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties."
