[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business. Many of the products we manufacture or purchase and resell are commodities whose price is determined by the market's supply and demand for such products, and the markets in which we operate are cyclical and competitive.. Many of the building products we produce or distribute, including OSB, plywood, lumber, and particleboard, are commodities that are widely available from other manufacturers or distributors with prices and volumes determined frequently in an auction market based on participants' perceptions of short-term supply and demand factors. At times, the price for any one or more of the products we produce or distribute may fall below our cash production or purchase costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Therefore, our profitability with respect to these commodity products depends, in significant part, on effective facilities maintenance programs, and on managing our cost structure, particularly raw materials and labor, which represent the largest components of our operating costs. Commodity wood product prices could be volatile in response to industry operating rates, net import and export activity, inventory levels in various distribution channels, and seasonal demand patterns. Commodity price volatility also affects our distribution business, with falling price environments generally causing reduced revenues and margins, resulting in declines in profitability.. Demand for the products we manufacture, as well as the products we purchase and distribute, is closely correlated with new residential construction in the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, residential repair-and-remodeling activity and light commercial construction. New residential construction activity has historically been volatile with demand for new residential construction influenced by seasonal weather factors, mortgage availability and rates, unemployment levels, household formation rates, domestic population growth, immigration rates, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing home prices, consumer confidence, and other general economic factors.. Industry supply for the products we produce and distribute is influenced primarily by price-induced changes in the operating rates of existing facilities but is also influenced over time by the introduction of new product technologies, capacity additions and closures, restart of idled capacity, and log availability. The balance of supply and demand in the U.S. is also heavily influenced by imported products, principally from Canada and South America.. In addition, we sell wood chips that are a byproduct of processing logs at our manufacturing operations, or created through the chipping of small diameter logs that we are unable to process at our manufacturing operations. Our wood chips are primarily sold to paper mills in close proximity to our operations who convert the chips into wood pulp. Periods of high output from wood based operations, closure of paper mills in the regions that we operate, or declines in demand for paper grades that utilize our chips, can negatively affect the balance of supply and demand for chips. An oversupply of chips has a negative impact on our chip price realizations and profitability.. We have very limited control of the foregoing, and as a result, our profitability and cash flow may fluctuate materially in response to changes in the supply and demand balance for our primary products.. Our industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our sales, operating results, and growth strategies could be negatively affected.. The markets for the products we manufacture in our Wood Products segment are highly competitive. Our competitors range from very large, fully integrated forest and building products firms to smaller firms that may manufacture only one or a few types of products. We also compete less directly with firms that manufacture substitutes for wood building products. Certain mills operated by our competitors may be lower-cost manufacturers than the mills operated by us.. 13. Table of Contents. The building products distribution industry that our Building Materials Distribution segment competes in is highly fragmented and competitive, and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our industry include pricing and availability of product, service and delivery capabilities, ability to assist customers with problem solving, extension of credit terms, customer relationships, geographic coverage, and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors and allows for more favorable terms on which to obtain products from suppliers and sell products to customers. If our financial condition deteriorates in the future, our relationships with suppliers and customers may be negatively affected.. Some of the businesses with which we compete are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility, and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. In addition, certain suppliers to our distribution business also sell and distribute their products directly to our customers. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to our retail customers in the future or enter into exclusive supply arrangements with other distributors. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and net income will be reduced.. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, including the demand from our Building Materials Distribution business, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our financial results.. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including but not limited to:. •     equipment failure, particularly a press at one of our major EWP production facilities;. •     fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes;. •     unscheduled maintenance outages;. •     utility, information technology, telephonic, and transportation infrastructure disruptions;. •     labor difficulties;. •     other operational problems; or. •     ecoterrorism or threats of ecoterrorism.. Any downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements would be impaired, resulting in lower sales and net income.. Because approximately 52% of our Wood Products sales in 2017 were to our Building Materials Distribution business, a material disruption at our Wood Products facilities would also negatively affect our Building Materials Distribution business. We are therefore exposed to a larger extent to the risk of disruption to our Wood Products manufacturing facilities due to our vertical integration and the resulting impact on our Building Materials Distribution business.. In addition, a number of our suppliers are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks noted above. Our suppliers' inability to produce the necessary raw materials for our manufacturing processes or supply the finished goods that we distribute through our Building Materials Distribution segment may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position.. Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions. We may be unable to efficiently integrate acquired operations or realize expected benefits from such acquisitions.. We may not be able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without disruption to our existing operations or may not be able to realize expected benefits. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including some that may not be identifiable or resolvable in due diligence. Subsequent to making the investment, performance of the acquired assets is subject to economic uncertainties, as described in our other risk factors, as well as difficulties integrating acquired personnel into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers, or. 14. Table of Contents. suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unknown or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations.. We acquired two EWP facilities in March 2016, one in Thorsby, Alabama, and one in Roxboro, North Carolina. At the time of our purchase, the Thorsby assets were operating well below normal rates of production and a significant portion of the assets at the Roxboro facility had been idled since 2010. The ramp-up of production at the Thorsby facility has proceeded as expected. However, although we have been able to restart the operations at Roxboro, manufacturing costs have been in excess of our expectations and we continue to incur operating losses at the facility. There is no assurance that we will be able to improve operating and financial performance at Roxboro, and we may not be able to realize the benefits we expected from its acquisition.. We continuously evaluate potential acquisitions and have in the past grown through acquisitions. In the future, we may be unable to successfully identify attractive potential acquisitions or effectively integrate potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, including those noted above, and potential issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations.. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively, realize expected benefits, or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. If our long-lived assets, goodwill, and/or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record noncash impairment charges that could have a material impact on our results of operations.. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We also test goodwill in each of our reporting units and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may exceed fair value. Factors such as lower than anticipated growth in single-family housing starts, loss of key customers, capacity additions by competitors, or changes in raw material or manufacturing costs that lead us to believe the long-lived asset will no longer provide a sufficient return on investment, could prompt decisions to curtail operations or to invest capital differently than expected. Any of these factors, among others, could result in noncash impairment charges in the future with respect to the investments we have completed and expect to complete, which could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which an impairment is recognized. For additional information and a discussion regarding the impact of impairment of long-lived assets on our results of operations and financial condition, see \"Long-Lived Asset Impairment\" included in \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Form 10-K.. Labor disruptions, shortages of skilled and technical labor, or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.. As of February 11, 2018, we had approximately 6,370 employees. Approximately 24% of these employees work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. As of February 11, 2018, we had nine collective bargaining agreements. The agreement covering approximately 96 employees at our Canadian EWP facility expired on December 31, 2017, but has been extended indefinitely pending negotiations. We may not be able to renew this agreement or may renew it on terms that are less favorable to us than the current agreement. We could also experience a material labor disruption, strike, or significantly increased labor costs at one or more of our facilities, either in the course of negotiations of a labor agreement or otherwise. In addition, the ongoing recovery in the U.S. economy and our industry, when coupled with low unemployment rates, has made it difficult to acquire and retain the skilled labor necessary to successfully operate our facilities. Labor disruptions or shortages could prevent us from meeting customer demands or result in increased costs, thereby reducing our sales and profitability.. We may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees.. Our key managers are important to our success and may be difficult to replace because they have a significant amount of experience in wood products manufacturing and building materials distribution. While our senior management team has considerable experience, certain members of our management team are nearing or have reached retirement age. In addition, certain of our employees have assumed key roles in recent years and may not have the experience of retiring key managers. The failure to successfully formulate and implement succession plans for retiring employees, and training plans for new key managers, could result in inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or inadequate skill sets, which could adversely affect our business.. 15. Table of Contents. Our manufacturing operations may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices or at all.. Wood fiber is our principal raw material, which accounted for approximately 44% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses (excluding depreciation) for our Wood Products segment in 2017. Our primary source of wood fiber is logs. Log prices have been cyclical historically in response to changes in domestic and foreign demand and supply. In the future, we expect the level of foreign demand for log exports from the western U.S. to fluctuate based on the economic activity in China and other Pacific Rim countries, currency exchange rates, and the availability of log supplies from other countries such as Canada, Russia, and New Zealand. Sustained periods of high log costs may impair the cost competitiveness of our manufacturing facilities.. In our Pacific Northwest operations, a substantial portion of our logs are purchased from governmental authorities, including federal, state, and local governments. As a result, existing and future governmental regulation can affect our access to, and the cost of, such timber. Future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, timber harvest methodologies, forest road construction and maintenance, the protection of endangered species, forest-based carbon sequestration, the promotion of forest health, and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires can affect log and fiber supply from both government and private lands. Availability of harvested logs and fiber may be further limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, windstorms, hurricanes, flooding, and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. If we are unable to negotiate purchases for our log requirements in a particular region to satisfy our log needs at satisfactory prices or at all, which could include private purchases, open-market purchases, and purchases from governmental sources, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We also purchase OSB, which is used as the vertical web to assemble I-joists, from a supplier with multiple locations throughout North America. OSB accounted for approximately 7% of the aggregate amount of materials, labor, and other operating expenses (excluding depreciation) for our Wood Products segment in 2017. OSB is a commodity, and prices have been historically volatile in response to industry capacity restarts and operating rates, inventory levels in various distribution channels, and seasonal demand patterns. Sustained periods of high OSB costs lead to higher costs of our I-joist production.. Wood fiber also includes, to a lesser extent than OSB, lumber purchased from third parties for I-joist production at our Canadian EWP facility and for production at our laminated beam plant in Idaho. Lumber input costs are subject to similar commodity-based volatility characteristics noted above for OSB. In addition, our particleboard operation uses wood residuals from lumber operations, about half of which is purchased from third parties. Periods of low demand for lumber can negatively affect supply and pricing of wood residuals used at our particleboard facility.. A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with a small number of customers.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our top ten customers represented approximately 35% of our sales. At December 31, 2017, receivables from two customers accounted for approximately 12% and 15% of total receivables. Although we believe that our relationships with our customers are strong, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow, and liquidity.. Adverse housing market conditions may increase the credit risk from our customers.. Our Building Materials Distribution and Wood Products segments extend credit to numerous customers who are generally susceptible to the same economic business risks as we are. Unfavorable housing market conditions could result in financial failures of one or more of our significant customers. Furthermore, we may not necessarily be aware of any deterioration in our customers' financial position. If our customers' financial positions become impaired, our ability to fully collect receivables from such customers could be impaired and negatively affect our operating results, cash flow, and liquidity.. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health.. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. 16. Table of Contents. Cyber security risks related to the technology used in our operations and other business processes, as well as security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, could adversely affect our business.. We rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. The Company is continuously working to install new, and upgrade its existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to ensure that the Company is protected, to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. Despite careful security and controls design, including independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third-party providers, have been subject to security breaches and cyber attacks. To date, none of the known security breaches or cyber attacks have had material adverse effects on our operations. However, in the future, network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions, including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the systems. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Delayed sales, slowed production, or other repercussions resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. Our operations require substantial capital, and recent significant capital investments and acquisitions have increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability.. In recent years, we have completed a number of capital investments, including the replacement or rebuild of veneer dryers and log utilization centers (or improvements to other manufacturing equipment), increasing our outdoor storage acreage, and leasing additional warehouse space. These capital investments, along with acquisitions, have resulted in increased fixed costs, which could negatively affect our profitability if the housing market does not continue to recover and revenues do not improve to offset our incremental fixed costs. Capital expenditures for expansion or replacement of existing facilities or equipment or to comply with future changes in environmental laws and regulations may be substantial. Although we maintain our production equipment with regular periodic and scheduled maintenance, we cannot guarantee that key pieces of equipment in our various manufacturing facilities will not need to be repaired or replaced or that we will not incur significant additional costs associated with environmental compliance. The costs of repairing or replacing such equipment and the associated downtime of the affected production line could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If for any reason we are unable to provide for our operating needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements on economic terms, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities.. Our businesses are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in the operation of our businesses. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations, including those aimed at addressing greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing laws or regulations might require us to make significant expenditures or restrict operations.. As an owner and operator of real estate, we may be liable under environmental laws for the cleanup of past and present spills and releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties and operations. We could be found liable under these laws whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such substances. In some cases, this liability may exceed the value of the property itself.. We may be unable to generate funds or other sources of liquidity and capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures to the extent we are not indemnified by third parties. For example, in connection with prior transactions, certain third parties are generally obligated to indemnify us for hazardous substance releases and other environmental violations that occurred prior to such transactions. However, these third parties may not have sufficient funds to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations when required, and in some cases, we may not be contractually entitled to indemnification by them. For additional information on how environmental regulation and compliance affects our business, see \"Environmental\" in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Form 10-K.. 17. Table of Contents. Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.. Our earnings may be negatively affected by the amount of expense we record for our pension plans. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to \"Accumulated other comprehensive loss.\" Our pension plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the present value of our liabilities increases, potentially increasing pension expense and funding requirements. A decline in the market value of the pension assets could also increase our pension expense and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension plans. At December 31, 2017, the net underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans was $61.3 million. If the status of our defined benefit plans continues to be underfunded, we anticipate significant future funding obligations, reducing the cash available for our business. For more discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan estimates, see \"Pensions\" included in \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Form 10-K.. We depend on third parties for transportation services and limited availability or increases in costs of transportation could adversely affect our business and operations.. Our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, via railroad or truck. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture or distribute and for the delivery of our raw materials. In addition, we are subject to seasonal capacity constraints and weather related delays for both rail and truck transportation.. If any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture or distribute in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost.. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships, and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition.. In addition, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our sales, profitability, and cash flows.. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, product warranty, casualty, manufacturing and construction defects, and other claims.. We may be involved in product liability, product warranty, casualty, manufacturing and construction defects, and other claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute, and services we provide that could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell and distribute. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our employees, and homebuilders and their subcontractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability, product warranty, casualty, construction defect, and other claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. We cannot assure that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. Some of our products are vulnerable to declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials, as well as changes in building code provisions.. Our products may compete with alternative products in certain market segments. For example, plastic, concrete, steel, wood/plastic or composite materials may be used by builders as alternatives to the products produced by our Wood Products segment such as EWP, plywood, and lumber. Changes in prices for oil, chemicals, and wood-based fiber can change the competitive position of our products relative to available alternatives and could increase substitution of those products for our products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for our products may decline.. Our principal manufactured products are also subject to substitution from other wood-based products, such as EWP facing competition from numerous dimension lumber producers and other strand based EWP that we don't produce or plywood losing further market share to OSB in residential and non-residential applications.. In addition, building code provisions have been implemented in certain jurisdictions to address concerns for fire fighter safety related to the collapse of floors during residential fires. The I-joists that we manufacture are subject to this code change. As local jurisdictions adopt the new code, conventional I-joists will be competitively disadvantaged in houses that are built with ground floors over unfinished basements and could be subject to substitution by dimension lumber or other products.. Our ability to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs is subject to various risks.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness and fund other liquidity needs depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business, and other factors, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets as well as the other risks described herein. In particular, demand for our products correlates to a significant degree to the level of residential construction activity in North America, which historically has been characterized by significant cyclicality.. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us at a cost or in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure, or liquidate some or all of our assets.. The terms of our debt agreements restrict, and covenants contained in agreements governing indebtedness in the future may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on our company and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. Our debt agreements contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose customary operating and financial restrictions on us. Our debt agreements limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to:. • incur additional debt;. • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock, or make other distributions to stockholders;. • make investments;. • create liens or use assets in security in other transactions;. • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease, or dispose of substantially all of our assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • sell or transfer certain assets; and. • in the case of our revolving credit facility, make prepayments on our senior notes and subordinated indebtedness.. In addition, our revolving credit facility provides that if an event of default occurs or excess availability under our revolving credit facility drops below a threshold amount equal to the greater of 10% of the aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facility or $37 million (and until such time as excess availability for two consecutive fiscal months exceeds that threshold amount and no event of default has occurred and is continuing), we will be required to maintain a monthly minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1.0, determined on a trailing twelve-month basis.. 19. Table of Contents. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent a stockholder from being able to sell shares at or above the price paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. •our operating and financial performance and prospects;. •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC);. • changes in key personnel;. • strategic actions by us, our customers, or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;. • the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;. • general economic, industry, and market conditions;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • material litigation or government investigations;. • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events;. • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team;. • the granting of equity or equity-based incentives;. • volume of trading in our common stock (which may be impacted by future sales or repurchases of our common stock);. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; and. • the impact of the facts described elsewhere in \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\" of this Form 10-K.. In addition, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. We may not pay cash dividends in the future.. In November 2017, our board of directors approved a dividend policy pursuant to which we expect to pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Pursuant to this policy, the board of directors declared dividends in November 2017 and February 2018. However, the future declaration and payment of dividends will continue to be at the discretion of our board of directors and the dividend policy may be suspended or canceled at its discretion at any time. Declaration of future dividends will depend upon legal capital requirements and surplus, our future operations and earnings, general financial condition, contractual obligations, restrictions imposed by our asset-based credit facility, term loan, and the indenture governing our senior notes, applicable laws, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Unless we continue to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future, the success of an investment in our common stock will. 20. Table of Contents. depend entirely upon its further appreciation. Our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which it was purchased.. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and other contractual provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors in exercising its duty of care determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:. •a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms;. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. •  stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent;. •  advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;. •  removal of directors only for cause;. • allowing only our board of directors the ability to create additional director seats and fill vacancies on our board of directors; and. •  super-majority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (DGCL), an antitakeover law. However, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203. These provisions prohibit a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We are subject to the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. In addition, we are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, as well as perform an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Testing and maintaining internal control could divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business.. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating.. 21. Table of Contents. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock."
