[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business including its financial performance, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Risks related to our industry. Conditions in the automotive industry may adversely affect our business.. Our financial performance depends on conditions in the global automotive industry. Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors including interest rates, consumer credit, and consumer spending and preferences. Economic declines that result in significant reduction in automotive or truck production would have an adverse effect on our sales to OEMs.. 15. We face strong competition.. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality, delivery, technological innovation, engineering development and program launch support are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically integrated units of our major OEM customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. A number of our competitors are larger than us and some competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Although OEMs have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside suppliers, a number of our major OEM customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with our products. These OEMs could elect to manufacture such products for their own uses in place of the products we currently supply. The competitive environment has changed dramatically over the past few years as our traditional U.S. OEM customers, faced with intense international competition, have expanded their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our business.. Risks related to our business. We are under substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of our products.. There is substantial and continuing pressure on OEMs to reduce costs, including costs of products we supply. Annual price reductions to OEM customers are a permanent component of our business. To maintain our profit margins, we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improved production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, updated product designs to reduce costs and we develop new products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass through increased raw material costs to our OEM customers is limited, with cost recovery often less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. Inability to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price reductions, increases in raw material costs, and increases in employee wages and benefits could have an adverse effect on our business.. We continue to face volatile costs of commodities used in the production of our products.. The Company uses a variety of commodities (including aluminum, copper, nickel, plastic resins, steel, other raw materials and energy) and materials purchased in various forms such as castings, powder metal, forgings, stampings and bar stock. Increasing commodity costs will have an impact on our results.  We have sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by including a material pass-through provision in our customer contracts wherever possible and by selectively hedging certain commodity exposures. Customers frequently challenge these contractual provisions and rarely pay the full cost of any material increases. The discontinuation or lessening of our ability to pass-through or hedge increasing commodity costs could adversely affect our business.. From time to time, commodity prices may also fall rapidly. When this happens, suppliers may withdraw capacity from the market until prices improve which may cause periodic supply interruptions. The same may be true of our transportation carriers and energy providers.  If these supply interruptions occur, it could adversely affect our business.. We use important intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if a third party makes assertions against us or our customers relating to intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected.. We own important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop. 16. technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts we undertake to protect them. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect or enforce these rights, could adversely affect our business and our competitive position.. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with increasing centralization of our information technology (IT) systems.. To improve efficiency and reduce costs, we have regionally centralized the information systems that support our business processes such as invoicing, payroll and general management operations.  If the centralized systems are disrupted or disabled, key business processes could be interrupted, which could adversely affect our business.. A failure of our information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely on the capacity, reliability and security of our IT systems and infrastructure. IT systems are vulnerable to disruptions, including those resulting from natural disasters, cyber-attacks or failures in third-party-provided services. Disruptions and attacks on our IT systems pose a risk to the security of our systems and our ability to protect our networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our third-party data. As a result, such attacks or disruptions could potentially lead to the inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, including our intellectual property, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and both internal and external supply shortages. This could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers and suppliers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately adversely affect our business.. Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce worldwide.  Any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees in numbers sufficient for our needs could adversely affect our business.. Part of our workforce is unionized which could subject us to work stoppages.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 15% of our U.S. workforce was unionized. We have a domestic collective bargaining agreement  for one facility in New York, which expires in September 2020. The workforce at certain of our international facilities is also unionized. A prolonged dispute with our employees could have an adverse effect on our business.. 17. Changes in interest rates and asset returns could increase our pension funding obligations and reduce our profitability.. We have unfunded obligations under certain of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The valuation of our future payment obligations under the plans and the related plan assets are subject to significant adverse changes if the credit and capital markets cause interest rates and projected rates of return to decline. Such declines could also require us to make significant additional contributions to our pension plans in the future. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce profitability in the future.. We also sponsor post-employment medical benefit plans in the U.S. that are unfunded. If medical costs continue to increase or actuarial assumptions are modified, this could have an adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations.. Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. The operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and we cannot assure  that we will not incur material costs or liabilities as a result. Through various acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure that we will not incur material costs and liabilities relating to activities that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving interpretations of existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or any new such laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Costs associated with failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business.. We have liabilities related to environmental, product warranties, litigation and other claims.. We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws.. We provide product warranties to our customers for some of our products. Under these product warranties, we may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. We cannot assure that costs and expenses associated with these product warranties will not be material, or that those costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such product warranties in our financial statements.. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These claims typically arise in the normal course of business and may include, but not be limited to, commercial or contractual disputes with our customers and suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury, product liability, environmental and employment claims. There is a possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on our business that is greater than we anticipate. While the Company maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of insurance may not be adequate to cover all insured claims and liabilities. The incurring of significant liabilities for which there is no, or insufficient, insurance coverage could adversely affect our business.. 18. We have faced, and in the future expect to face, substantial numbers of asbestos-related claims.  The cost of resolving those claims is inherently uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We have in the past been named in a significant number of lawsuits each year alleging injury related to exposure to asbestos in certain of our historical products.  We no longer manufacture, distribute, or sell products that contain asbestos.  We vigorously defend against asbestos-related claims, and we have historically been successful in getting the majority of such claims dismissed without payment.  Notwithstanding these factors, asbestos-related claims may be asserted against us in the future, and the number of those claims may be substantial.  We have estimated the indemnity and defense costs relating to the asbestos-related claims that have been asserted against us but not yet resolved, as well as those asbestos-related claims that we estimate may be asserted against us in the future.  Our estimate of future asbestos-related claims that may be asserted against us is based on assumptions as to the likely rates of occurrence of asbestos-related disease in the U.S. population in the future and the number of asbestos-related claims asserted as a result.  Furthermore, our estimates are based on a number of assumptions derived from our historical experience in resolving asbestos-related claims, including:. • the number and type of future asbestos-related claims that will be asserted against us;. • the number of future asbestos-related claims asserted against us that will result in a payment by us;. • the average payment necessary to resolve such claims; and. • the costs of defending such claims.. If our actual experience, as noted above, in receiving and resolving asbestos-related claims in the future differs significantly from these assumptions, then our expenditures to resolve such claims may be significantly higher or lower than the estimates contained in our financial statements, and, if higher, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows that is greater than we have estimated.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Other Matters - Contingencies - Asbestos-Related Liability\".. While we have certain insurance coverage available respecting asbestos-related claims asserted against us, substantially all of that insurance coverage is the subject of pending litigation.  The insurance that is at issue in the litigation is subject to various uncertainties, including: the assertion of defenses or the development of facts of which we are not presently aware, changes in the case law, and future financial viability of remaining insurers.  This insurance coverage is additionally subject to claims from other co-insured parties.  We currently project that our remaining insurance coverage for current and future asbestos-related claims will cover only a portion of the amounts that we estimate we ultimately may pay to resolve such claims. The resolution of the insurance coverage litigation, and the number and amount of claims on our insurance from co-insured parties, may increase or decrease the amount of insurance coverage available to us for asbestos-related claims from the estimates contained in our financial statements.. Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results. In addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business.. We have operations in multiple countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Compliance related issues in certain countries associated with laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws could also adversely affect our business.. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in import and export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or. 19. intend to operate. In addition, government disruptions, such as government shutdowns, may delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business.. Changes in tax laws or tax rates taken by taxing authorities and tax audits could adversely affect our business.. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the inability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits could adversely affect  our operating results. In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization.. If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, our effective tax rate could be materially affected. Our tax filings for various periods are subject to audit by the tax authorities in most jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have received tax assessments from various taxing authorities and are currently at varying stages of appeals and/or litigation regarding these matters. These audits may result in assessment of additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or through the courts. We believe these assessments may occasionally be based on erroneous and even arbitrary interpretations of local tax law. Resolution of any tax matters involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the outcomes will be favorable.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") that was signed into law in December 2017 constitutes a major change to the US tax system. The estimated impact of the law is based on management's current interpretations of the Act and related assumptions. Our final tax liability may be materially different from current estimates based on regulatory developments and our further analysis of the impacts of the Act. In future periods, our effective tax rate could be subject to additional uncertainty as a result of regulatory developments related to the Act. Furthermore, changes in the earnings mix or applicable foreign tax laws may result in significant fluctuations in our effective tax rates.. Because we are a U.S. holding company, one significant source of funds is distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Certain countries in which we operate have adopted or could institute currency exchange controls that limit or prohibit our local subsidiaries' ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars or to make payments outside the country. This could subject us to the risks of local currency devaluation and business disruption.. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful.. We have a stated goal of increasing sales and operating income at a rate greater than global vehicle production by increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components and through select acquisitions.. We may not meet our goal because of any of the following, or other factors: (a) the failure to develop new products that will be purchased by our customers; (b) technology changes rendering our products obsolete; and (c) a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of components.. We expect to continue to pursue business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances that leverage our technology capabilities, enhance our customer base, geographic representation, and scale to complement our current businesses and we regularly evaluate potential growth opportunities, some of which could be material. While we believe that such transactions are an integral part of our long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to these activities. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information we can obtain about a potential growth opportunity may be limited, and we can give no assurance that past or future business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances will positively affect our financial performance or will perform as planned. We may. 20. not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that we have acquired or acquire in the future, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. The integration of companies that we have acquired or acquire in the future may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected. Revenues following the acquisition of a company may be lower than expected, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, or suppliers) may be greater than expected and the retention of key employees at the acquired company may not be achieved. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business, reputation and operating results could be adversely affected. Likewise, our failure to integrate and manage acquired companies successfully may lead to future impairment of any associated goodwill and intangible asset balances. Failure to execute our growth strategy could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to risks related to our international operations.. We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions including Europe, Asia, and the Americas. For 2017, approximately 77% of our consolidated net sales were outside the U.S. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on the repatriation of funds, changing economic conditions, unreliable intellectual property protection and legal systems, insufficient infrastructures, social unrest, political instability and disputes, and international terrorism. Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations of various countries is challenging, burdensome and expensive.. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the period-end exchange rate for assets and liabilities and an average exchange rate for each period for revenues, expenses and capital expenditures. The local currency is the functional currency for substantially all of the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Significant foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translation of those foreign currencies could adversely affect our business. Additionally, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Korean Won and Chinese Renminbi, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses' operations that could negatively affect our results of operations.. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic, political and market conditions.. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive supply market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the Chinese market evolves, we anticipate that market participants will act aggressively to increase or maintain their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic, political and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets.. Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets and the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets could become restricted and our cost of borrowing or the interest rate for any subsequently issued debt would likely increase.. Our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded.  The interest costs on our revolving credit agreement are based on a rating grid agreed to in. 21. our credit agreement.  Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.. We could incur additional restructuring charges as we continue to execute actions in an effort to improve future profitability, competitiveness and to optimize our product portfolio and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits from these actions.. We have and may continue to initiate restructuring actions designed to improve future profitability, competitiveness, enhance treasury management flexibility, optimize our product portfolio or create an optimal legal entity structure. We may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future actions in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our actions could have an adverse effect on our business.. Risks related to our customers. We rely on sales to major customers.. We rely on sales to OEMs around the world of varying credit quality and manufacturing demands. Supply to several of these customers requires significant investment by the Company. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments due to a variety of factors including non-renewal of purchase orders, a customer's financial hardship or other unforeseen reasons, it could adversely affect our business.. Some of our sales are concentrated. Our worldwide sales in 2017 to Ford and Volkswagen constituted approximately 15% and 13% of our 2017 consolidated net sales, respectively.. We are sensitive to the effects of our major customers' labor relations.. All three of our primary North American customers, Ford, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and General Motors, have major union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. Because of domestic OEMs' dependence on a single union, we are affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at OEMs' facilities. Similarly, a majority of our global customers' operations outside of North America are also represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage at one or more of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business.. Risks related to our suppliers. We could be adversely affected by supply shortages of components from our suppliers.. In an effort to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services, we have been rationalizing our supply base. As a result, we are dependent on fewer sources of supply for certain components used in the manufacture of our products. The Company selects suppliers based on total value (including total landed price, quality, delivery, and technology), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition. We expect that they will deliver to our stated written expectations.. However, there can be no assurance that capacity limitations, labor unrest, weather emergencies, commercial disputes, government actions, riots, wars, sabotage, cyber attacks, non-conforming parts, acts of terrorism, \"Acts of God,\" or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in occasional shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components from other. 22. sources, we would be unable to meet the production schedules for some of our key products and could miss customer delivery expectations. This could adversely affect our customer relations and business.. Suppliers' economic distress could result in the disruption of our operations and could adversely affect our business.. Rapidly changing industry conditions such as volatile production volumes; credit tightness; changes in foreign currencies; raw material, commodity, transportation, and energy price escalation; drastic changes in consumer preferences; and other factors could adversely affect our supply chain, and sometimes with little advance notice. These conditions could also result in increased commercial disputes and supply interruption risks. In certain instances, it would be difficult and expensive for us to change suppliers that are critical to our business. On occasion, we must provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to protect our supply lines. We cannot predict with certainty the potential adverse effects these costs might have on our business.. We are subject to possible insolvency of outsourced service providers.. The Company relies on third party service providers for administration of legal claims, health care benefits, pension benefits, stockholder and bondholder registration and other services. These service providers contribute to the efficient conduct of the Company's business.  Insolvency of one or more of these service providers could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties.. The Company engages in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives, and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. The Company is subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to meet its obligations under such contracts.. Other risks. A variety of other factors could adversely affect our business.. Any of the following could materially and adversely affect our business: the loss of or changes in supply contracts or sourcing strategies of our major customers or suppliers; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellation of such programs; utilization of our manufacturing facilities, which can be dependent on a single product line or customer; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of recalls that may be required on products we supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the possible introduction of similar or superior technologies by others; global excess capacity and vehicle platform proliferation; and the impact of fire, flood or other natural disasters."
