[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risks described below should be carefully considered before deciding to invest in shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock. These are risks and uncertainties that management believes are most likely to be material and therefore are most important for an investor to consider. The Company's business operations and results may also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to it, or which it currently deems immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in its industry or business in general. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of the Company's Class A Common Stock could decline.. The Company Faces Substantial Competition.. The Better Beer category within the United States beer market is highly competitive, due to the increasing number of craft brewers with similar pricing and target drinkers and gains in market share achieved by domestic specialty beers and imported beers, and more recently the acquisition of craft brewers by the four largest market. 13. Table of Contents. competitors, AB InBev, MillerCoors, Constellation and Heineken. The Company faces strong competition from these brewers, as they acquire craft brewers or introduce new domestic specialty brands to many markets and expand their efforts behind existing brands. Imported beers, such as Corona®, Heineken®, Modelo Especial® and Stella Artois®, also continue to compete aggressively in the United States beer market. The Company anticipates competition among domestic craft brewers will remain strong, as many local craft brewers continued to experience growth and there were many new startups in 2017. The Company estimates there are now over 6,000 craft breweries in operation up from approximately 1,400 operating craft breweries in 2006. Also, existing craft breweries are building more capacity, adding additional local tap rooms, expanding geographically and adding more SKUs and styles. The continued growth in the sales of craft-brewed domestic beers and in imported beers is expected to increase the competition in the Better Beer category within the United States beer market and, as a result, prices and market share of the Company's products may fluctuate and possibly decline.. The Company's products compete generally with other alcoholic beverages. The Company competes with other beer and beverage companies not only for drinker acceptance and loyalty, but also for shelf, cold box and tap space in retail establishments and for marketing focus by the Company's Distributors and their customers, all of which also distribute and sell other beers and alcoholic beverage products. Many of the Company's competitors, including AB InBev, MillerCoors, Heineken and Constellation Brands, have substantially greater financial resources, marketing strength and distribution networks than the Company. Moreover, the introduction of new products by competitors that compete directly with the Company's products or that diminish the importance of the Company's products to retailers or Distributors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.. Further, the beer industry has seen continued consolidation among brewers in order to take advantage of cost savings opportunities for supplies, distribution and operations. Illustrative of this consolidation is AB InBev's $107 billion purchase of SAB Miller and the related sale by SAB Miller to MolsonCoors of its 58% share of the MillerCoors joint venture with MolsonCoors, as well as Heineken's acquisition of Lagunitas Brewing Company for approximately $1 billion and Constellation Brand's acquisition of Ballast Point Brewing & Spirits for approximately $1 billion. Also, in the last few years, both AB Inbev and MillerCoors have purchased multiple regional craft breweries with the intention to expand the capacity and distribution of these breweries. Due to the increased leverage that these combined operations will have in distribution and sales and marketing expenses, the costs to the Company of competing could increase. The potential also exists for these large competitors to increase their influence with their Distributors, making it difficult for smaller brewers to maintain their market presence or enter new markets. The continuing consolidation could also reduce the contract brewing capacity that is available to the Company. These potential increases in the number and availability of competing brands, the costs to compete, reductions in contract brewing capacity and decreases in distribution support and opportunities may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.. There Is No Assurance that the Company Can Adapt to the Challenges of the Changing Competitive Environment and Reverse its Recent Sales Declines and Return to Periods of Growth.. Since 2015, the Company has experienced a decline in the domestic demand for its products and has seen craft beer growth rates slow and the hard cider category decline. The Company's ability to reverse these trends and return its brands to periods of growth may be limited by its ability to increase its market share in domestic and international markets, including markets that may be dominated by one or more regional or local craft brewers, markets affected by an increasing number of competitors and the emergence of local tap rooms as a significant on premise channel, and markets where drinker interest is primarily in new or local products, rather than established brands. The development of new products by the Company to meet these challenges may lead to reduced sales of the Company's other products, including its flagship Samuel Adams Boston Lager and there is no guarantee of long term volume by these new initiatives. Additionally, changes in use of media and technology are changing the economics of how to market brands to drinkers, and may be diminishing the traditional competitive advantage the Company may have had in buying national media relative to smaller brands. Reduced sales, among other factors, could lead to lower brewery utilization, lower funds available to invest in brand. 14. Table of Contents. support and reduced profitability, and these challenges may require a different mix and level of marketing investments to stabilize and grow volumes. While the Company believes that a combination of innovation, new brand messaging and exploration of new media, and increased investment and sales execution can lead to increased demand, there is no guarantee that the Company's actions will be successful in maintaining the Company's historical levels of profitability. A lower growth environment or continued Company Sales declines, will present challenges for the Company to motivate and retain employees, to maintain the current levels of wholesaler and retailer support of its brands, to maintain the current brand investment levels, and to maintain current returns to shareholders, and potentially could require a review of long term organization and brewery needs. Currently the Company believes it can return to long term growth but there is no guarantee it will be successful.. The Company's Advertising and Promotional Investments May Affect the Company's Financial Results but Not be Effective.. The Company has made, and expects to continue to make, significant advertising and promotional expenditures to enhance its brands, even though these expenditures may adversely affect the Company's results of operations in a particular quarter or even for the full year, and may not result in increased sales. Variations in the levels of advertising and promotional expenditures have in the past caused, and are expected in the future to continue to cause, variability in the Company's quarterly results of operations. While the Company attempts to invest only in effective advertising and promotional expenditures, it is difficult to correlate such investments with sales results, and there is no guarantee that the Company's expenditures will be effective in building brand equity or growing long term sales.. Changes in Public Attitudes and Drinker Tastes Could Harm the Company's Business. Regulatory Changes in Response to Public Attitudes Could Adversely Affect the Company's Business.. The alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years, due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including driving under the influence, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol, including alcoholism. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed, that further restrictions on the sale of alcohol might be imposed or that there may be renewed efforts to impose increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States.. The domestic beer industry, other than Better Beers, has experienced a slight decline in shipments over the last ten years. The Company believes that this slower growth is due to both declining alcohol consumption per person in the population and increased competition from wine and spirits companies. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic drinkers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulations, the Company's business could be materially adversely affected.. Certain states are considering or have passed laws and regulations that allow the sale and distribution of marijuana. Currently it is not possible to predict the impact of this on sales of alcohol, but it is possible that legal marijuana usage could adversely impact the demand for the Company's products.. The Company Is Dependent on Its Distributors.. In the United States, where approximately 96% of its beer is sold, the Company sells most of its alcohol beverages to independent beer Distributors for distribution to retailers and, ultimately, to drinkers. Although the Company currently has arrangements with approximately 350 Distributors, sustained growth will require it to maintain such relationships and possibly enter into agreements with additional Distributors. Changes in control or ownership within the current distribution network could lead to less support of the Company's products.. 15. Table of Contents. Contributing to distribution risk is the fact that the Company's distribution agreements are generally terminable by the Distributor on relatively short notice. While these distribution agreements contain provisions giving the Company enforcement and termination rights, some state laws prohibit the Company from exercising these contractual rights. The Company's ability to maintain its existing distribution arrangements may be adversely affected by the fact that many of its Distributors are reliant on one of the major beer producers for a large percentage of their revenue and, therefore, they may be influenced by such producers. If the Company's existing distribution agreements are terminated, it may not be able to enter into new distribution agreements on substantially similar terms, which may result in an increase in the costs of distribution.. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to maintain its current distribution network or secure additional Distributors on terms not less favorable to the Company than its current arrangements.. Impact of Changes in Drinker Attitudes on Brand Equity and Inherent Risk of Reliance on the Company's Founder in the Samuel Adams® Brand Communications.. In addition to the societal and political risks discussed above, there is also no guarantee that the brand equities that the Company has built in its brands will continue to appeal to drinkers. Changes in drinker attitudes or demands, or competitor activity and promotion, could adversely affect the strength of the Company's brands and the revenue that is generated from that strength. It is possible that the Company could react to such changes and reposition its brands, but there is no certainty that the Company would be able to maintain volumes, pricing power and profitability. It is also possible that marketing messages or other actions taken by the Company could damage its brand equities, as opposed to building them. If such damage were to occur, it would likely have a negative effect on the financial condition of the Company.. In addition to these inherent brand risks, the founder and Chairman of the Company, C. James Koch, is an integral part of the Company's Samuel Adams brand history, equity and current and potential future brand messaging and the Company relies on the positive public perception of its founder. The role of Mr. Koch as founder, brewer and leader of the Company is emphasized as part of the Company's brand communication and has appeal to some drinkers. If Mr. Koch were not available to the Company to continue his active role, his absence could negatively affect the strength of the Company's messaging and, accordingly, the Company's growth prospects. The Company and its brands may also be impacted if drinkers' views of Mr. Koch were to negatively change. If either of these were to occur, the Company might need to adapt its strategy for communicating its key messages regarding its traditional brewing processes, brewing heritage and quality. Any such change in the Company's messaging strategy might have a detrimental impact on the future growth of the Company.. Turnover in Company Leadership or Other Key Positions May Lead to Loss of Key Knowledge or Capability and Adversely Impact Company Performance.. In 2016 the Company made changes in several senior management positions, including hiring a new Chief Financial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, and promoting a new Vice President for Human Resources. In early 2017, the President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin Roper, announced his plans to retire in 2018 after leading the Company for more than 17 years. In early 2018, the Company announced that Dave Burwick will join as President and Chief Executive Officer in the second quarter of 2018. Burwick has an established track record of innovation and business success in the beverage and consumer goods industries and has served on Boston Beer's Board of Directors since 2005. His most recent role is Chief Executive Officer of Peet's Coffee and prior to joining Peet's, Mr. Burwick served as President of North America for Weight Watchers and in numerous leadership roles over 20 years at PepsiCo, including Chief Marketing Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America. It is anticipated that Mr. Roper will resign as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a Director, when Mr. Burwick joins the Company. The Company may well experience further changes in key leadership or key positions in the future. The departure of key leadership personnel, especially a long-serving Chief Executive Officer, can take from the Company significant knowledge. 16. Table of Contents. and experience. This loss of knowledge and experience can be mitigated through successful hiring and transition, but there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts. Attracting, retaining, integrating and developing high performance individuals in key roles is a core component of the Company's strategy for addressing its business opportunities. Attracting and retaining qualified senior leadership may be more challenging under adverse business conditions, such as the declining growth environment now facing the Company. Failure to attract and retain the right talent, or to smoothly manage the transition of responsibilities resulting from such turnover, would affect the Company's ability to meet its challenges and may cause the Company to miss performance objectives or financial targets.. The Company has Significantly Increased its Product Offerings and Distribution Footprint, which Increases Complexity and Could Adversely Affect the Company's Results.. The Company has significantly increased the number of its commercially available beers, hard ciders and hard sparkling waters that it produces. Since 2010, the Company has introduced many new beers, ciders and hard sparkling waters under the Samuel Adams, Angry Orchard, Twisted Tea and Truly Spiked & Sparkling brand names. A&S Brewing currently has four brands, including three small breweries and retail tap rooms where beer is sold and consumed on-premise. In 2015, the Company opened the Angry Orchard Innovation Cider House at its apple orchard located in Walden, New York, where hard cider is fermented, sold and consumed on-premise. In 2016, the Company began national distribution of certain styles of the Truly Spiked & Sparkling brand. In 2017, the Company opened a Tap Room at the Boston Brewery where beer is sold and consumed on-premise. These additional brands and locations, along with the increases in demand for certain existing brands, have added to the complexity of the Company's product development process, as well as its brewing, fermenting, packaging, marketing and selling processes. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increased complexity, without experiencing coordination issues, and resulting operating inefficiencies, supply shortages or control deficiencies. Such inefficiencies or deficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.. Impact of Reliance on Company-Owned Production Facilities, Reduced Availability of Breweries Owned by Others, and Inability to Leverage Investment in the Company-Owned Breweries Could Have A Material Adverse Effect on the Company's Operations or Financial Results.. Prior to 2008, the Company pursued a production strategy that combined the capacity at its Cincinnati Brewery, which was acquired in 1997, with significant production arrangements at breweries owned by third parties. The brewing services arrangements with breweries owned by others allowed the Company to utilize their excess capacity, providing the Company with production flexibility, as well as cost advantages over its competitors, while maintaining full control over the brewing process for its beers. The Company purchased the Pennsylvania Brewery in June 2008. As a result of that acquisition and the subsequent expansion of the Pennsylvania Brewery's capacity, the volume of core brands brewed at Company-owned breweries increased, and currently over 90% of the Company's volume is produced and packaged at breweries that it owns.. In 2017, the Company brewed its flagship beer, Samuel Adams Boston Lager, at each of its three Samuel Adams breweries, but at any particular time it may rely on only one brewery for its products other than Samuel Adams Boston Lager. The Company expects to continue to brew most all of its domestic volume in 2018 at its Company-owned breweries. This reliance on its own breweries exposes the Company to capacity constraints and risk of disruption of supply, as these breweries are operating at or close to current capacity in peak months. Management believes that it has alternatives available to it, in the event that production at any of its brewing locations is temporarily interrupted, although as volumes at the Pennsylvania Brewery increase, severe interruptions there would be problematic, particularly during peak season. In addition, if interruptions were to occur, the Company may not be able to maintain its current economics and could face significant delays in starting replacement brewing locations. Potential interruptions at breweries include labor issues, governmental action, quality issues, contractual disputes, machinery failures, operational shut downs or natural or unavoidable catastrophe.. 17. Table of Contents. The growth in the Company's business and product complexity and the expansion of the capacities and manpower at the Company's breweries to facilitate greater reliance on its owned breweries heighten the management challenges that the Company faces. In recent years, the Company has had product shortages and service issues and the Company's supply chain struggled under the increased volume and experienced increased operational and freight costs as it reacted. In response to these issues, the Company has significantly increased its packaging capabilities and tank capacity and added personnel to address these challenges. There can be no assurance that the Company will effectively manage such increasing complexity without experiencing future planning failures, operating inefficiencies, insufficient employee training, control deficiencies or other issues that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. The prior growth of the Company, changes in operating procedures and increased complexity have required significant capital investment. The Company to date has not seen operating cost leverage from these increased volumes and there is no guarantee that it will.. The Company continues to avail itself of capacity at third-party breweries. During 2017, the Company brewed and/or packaged certain products under service agreements with City Brewing Company, LLC. In selecting third party breweries for brewing services arrangements, the Company carefully weighs a brewery's capability of utilizing traditional brewing, fermenting and finishing methods and its quality control capabilities throughout the production process. To the extent that the Company needs to avail itself of a third-party brewing services arrangement, it exposes itself to higher than planned costs of operating under such contract arrangements than would apply at the Company-owned breweries, potential lower service levels and reliability than internal production, and potential unexpected declines in the brewing capacity available to it, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. The use of such third party facilities also creates higher logistical costs and uncertainty in the ability to deliver product to the Company's customers efficiently and on time.. As the brewing industry continues to consolidate and the Company has grown, the capacity and willingness of breweries owned by others where the Company could brew some of its beers, if necessary, has become a more significant concern and, thus, there is no guarantee that the Company's brewing needs will be uniformly met. The Company continues to work at its Company-owned breweries, and with its contract brewers to attempt to minimize any potential disruptions. Nevertheless, should an interruption occur, the Company could experience temporary shortfalls in production and/or increased production and/or distribution costs and be required to make significant capital investments to secure alternative capacity for certain brands and packages, the combination of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. A simultaneous interruption at several of the Company's production locations or an unexpected interruption at one of the Company-owned breweries would likely cause significant disruption, increased costs and, potentially, lost sales.. The Company's emphasis on owning production facilities requires it to continue to make a significant level of capital expenditure to maintain and improve these facilities and to incur significant fixed operating costs to support them. In an uncertain volume environment, the Company faces the risk of not being able to support the owned brewery operating costs, if volumes were to decline. At the same time, despite making these expenditures and incurring these costs, if demand were to increase significantly, the Company could still face the risk of not being able to meet the increased demand internally.. The Company attempts to balance these factors through a combination of owned breweries and access to contract facilities, but there is no guarantee that this strategy is optimal and it might result in short term costs and inefficiencies.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company is Dependent on Key Suppliers, Including Foreign Sources; Its Dependence on Foreign Sources Creates Foreign Currency Exposure for the Company; The Company's Use of Natural Ingredients Creates Weather and Crop Reliability and Excess/Shortage Inventory Exposure for the Company.. The Company purchases a substantial portion of the raw materials used in the brewing of its products, including its malt, hops and other ingredients, from a limited number of foreign and domestic suppliers. The Company purchased most of the malt used in the production of its beer from two suppliers during 2017. Nevertheless, the Company believes that there are other malt vendors available that are capable of supplying part of its needs. The Company is exposed to the quality of the barley crop each year, and significant failure of a crop would adversely affect the Company's costs.. The Company predominantly uses Noble hops for its Samuel Adams lagers. Noble hops are varieties from several specific growing areas recognized for superior taste and aroma properties and include Hallertau-Hallertauer, Tettnang-Tettnanger, Hersbruck-Hersbrucker and Spalt-Spalter from Germany and Saaz-Saazer from the Czech Republic. Noble hops are rare and more expensive than most other varieties of hops. Traditional English hops, namely, East Kent Goldings and English Fuggles, and/or United States hops are used in most of the Company's ales. The demand for hops grown in the United States has grown due to the success and growth of craft brewers and the popularity of beer styles that include hops grown in the United States. Certain United States hops are in tight supply and prices have risen for both spot purchases and forward contract pricing, accordingly. The Company enters into purchase commitments with several hops dealers, based on the Company's projected future volumes and brewing needs. The dealers then contract with farmers to meet the Company's needs. However, the performance and availability of the hops, as with any agricultural product, may be materially adversely affected by factors such as adverse weather or pests and there is no guarantee the contracts will be fulfilled completely. Further, the use of fertilizers and pesticides that do not conform to United States regulations, the imposition of export/import restrictions (such as increased tariffs and duties) and changes in currency exchange rates could result in increased prices or shortages of acceptable hops.. The Company attempts to maintain up to a two-year supply of essential hop varieties on-hand in order to limit the risk of an unexpected reduction in supply, but as the Company innovates, the availability of certain hop varieties for new products is likely significantly lower. The Company buys new hop varieties for its innovation based on its best estimate of demand and does not try to get to two-year supply on hand immediately. Given the imprecision of forecasting future volumes, the Company is at hop supply risk on certain varieties if its innovations are significantly more successful than expected. The Company stores its hops in multiple cold storage warehouses to minimize the impact of a catastrophe at a single site. Hops and malt are agricultural products and therefore many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating out of hops or barley to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply.. The Company uses special varieties of apples in its ciders that it believes are important for the ciders' flavor profile. These apples are sourced primarily from European and United States suppliers and include bittersweet apples from France and culinary apples from Italy and Washington state. There is limited availability of these apples and many outside factors, including weather conditions, farmers rotating from apples to other crops, government regulations and legislation affecting agriculture, could affect both price and supply. The Company has entered into contracts to cover its expected needs for 2018 and expects to realize full delivery against these contracts.. Except for a temporary shortage of apples in 2012, the Company has not experienced material difficulties in obtaining timely delivery from its suppliers, although the Company has had to pay significantly above historical prices to secure supplies when inventory and supply have been tight.. The Company's new product development can also be constrained by any limited availability of certain ingredients. Growth rates higher than planned or the introduction of new products requiring special ingredients could create demand for ingredients greater than the Company can source. Although the Company believes that. 19. Table of Contents. there are alternative sources available for some of the ingredients and packaging materials, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to acquire such ingredients or packaging materials from substitute sources on a timely or cost effective basis, in the event that current suppliers could not adequately fulfill orders. The loss or significant reduction in the capability of a supplier to support the Company's requirements could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company's business and financial results, until alternative supply arrangements were secured.. The Company's contracts for certain hops and apples are payable in Euros, Pounds Sterling and New Zealand dollars, and therefore, the Company is subject to the risk that the Euro, Pound or New Zealand dollar may fluctuate adversely against the U.S. dollar. The Company has, as a practice, not hedged this exposure, although this practice is regularly reviewed. Significant adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. The cost of hops has increased in recent years due to the rising market price of hops and exchange rate changes. The continuation of these trends will impact the Company's product cost and potentially the Company's ability to meet the demand for its beers. The Company buys some other ingredients and capital equipment from foreign suppliers for which the Company also carries exposure to foreign exchange rate changes.. The Company's accounting policy for hops inventory and purchase commitments is to recognize a loss by establishing a reserve to the extent inventory levels and commitments exceed management's expected future usage. The computation of the excess inventory requires management to make certain assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix, cancellation costs and supply, among others. Actual results may differ materially from management's estimates. The Company continues to manage inventory levels and purchase commitments in an effort to maximize utilization of hops on hand and hops under commitment. However, changes in management's assumptions regarding future sales growth, product mix and hops market conditions could result in future material losses.. The Company's Operations are Subject to Certain Operating Hazards Which Could Result in Unexpected Costs or Product Recalls That Could Harm the Company's Business.. The Company's operations are subject to certain hazards and liability risks faced by all brewers, such as potential contamination of ingredients or products by bacteria or other external agents that may be wrongfully or accidentally introduced into products or packaging, or defective packaging and handling. Such occurrences may create bad tasting beer, hard cider or hard sparkling water, or pose risk to the integrity and safety of the packaging. These could result in unexpected costs to the Company and, in the case of a costly product recall, potentially serious damage to the Company's reputation for product quality, as well as product liability claims.. The Company Relies Upon Complex Information Systems. The Company depends on information technology to be able to operate efficiently and interface with customers and suppliers, as well as maintain financial and accounting reporting accuracy to ensure compliance with all applicable laws. If the Company does not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, the Company could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. The Company recognizes that many groups on a world-wide basis have experienced increases in cyber attacks and other hacking activity. The Company has dedicated internal and external resources to review and address such threats. However, as with all large information technology systems, the Company's systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential or proprietary information, corrupting information, disrupting business processes, or engaging in the unauthorized use of strategic information. Such unauthorized access could disrupt business operations and could result in the loss of assets or revenues, remediation costs or damage to the Company's reputation, as well as litigation against the Company by third parties adversely affected by the unauthorized access. Such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results. The Company also relies on third parties for supply of software,. 20. Table of Contents. software and data hosting and telecommunications and networking, and is reliant on those third parties for the quality and integrity of these complex services. Failure by a third party supplier could have material adverse effect on the Company's ability to operate.. The Company May Not Be Able to Meet Demand for Its Products.. The Company's future growth may also be limited by its ability to meet the demand for its products, whether as a result of production capacity, disruption or operating performance issues at the Company's owned breweries, limits on the availability of suitable production capacity at third party-owned breweries and the Company's ability to enter into brewing contracts with third party-owned breweries on commercially acceptable terms, or the Company's ability to obtain sufficient quantities of certain ingredients and packaging materials, such as hops, malt, cider ingredients, bottles and cans, from suppliers.. An Increase in Packaging Costs Could Harm the Company's Financial Results.. The Company maintains competitive sources for the supply of certain packaging materials, such as shipping cases and glass. The Company enters into limited-term supply agreements with certain vendors in order to receive preferential pricing. In 2017, cans, crowns, six pack carriers and labels were each supplied by single sources. Although the Company believes that alternative suppliers are available, the loss of any of the Company's packaging materials suppliers could, in the short-term, adversely affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position until alternative supply arrangements were secured. Additionally, there has been acquisition and consolidation activity in several of the packaging supplier networks which could potentially lead to disruption in supply and changes in economics. If packaging costs continue to increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along through increased prices. The Company has entered into long-term supply agreements for certain packaging materials that have shielded it from some cost increases. These contracts have varying lengths and terms and there is no guarantee that the economics of these contracts can be replicated when renewed. The Company's inability to preserve the current economics on renewal could expose the Company to significant cost increases in future years. Some of these contracts require the Company to make commitments on minimum volume of purchases based on Company forecasts. If the Company's needs differ significantly from its forecasts, the Company would likely incur storage costs for excess production or contractual penalties that might be significant to Company financial results.. An Increase in Energy Costs Could Harm the Company's Financial Results.. In the last five years, the Company has experienced significant variation in direct and indirect energy costs, and energy costs could change unpredictably. Increased energy costs would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs, including increases in the cost of ingredients and supplies. The Company's future operating expenses and margins could be dependent on its ability to manage the impact of such cost increases. If energy costs increase, there is no guarantee that such costs can be fully passed along through increased prices.. Changes in Tax, Environmental and Other Regulations or Failure to Comply with Existing Licensing, Trade or Other Regulations Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company's Financial Condition.. The Company's business is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with Distributors, environmental impact of operations and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent reevaluation, varying interpretations and political debate, and inquiries from governmental regulators charged with their enforcement. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations relating to the Company's operations or any revisions to such laws and regulations or the failure to pay taxes or other fees imposed on the Company's operations and results could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of the Company's licenses, permits or approvals, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Federal and other tax rates could have significant effect on the Company's financial results.. 21. Table of Contents. There Is No Guarantee that the Company Will Not Face Litigation that Could Harm the Company's Business.. While the Company has from time to time in the past been involved in material litigation, it is not currently a party to any pending or threatened litigation, the outcome of which would be expected to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or the results of its operations. In general, while the Company believes it conducts its business appropriately in accordance with laws, regulations and industry guidelines, claims, whether or not meritorious, could be asserted against the Company that might adversely impact the Company's results. See Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings below.. The Class B Shareholder Has Significant Control over the Company. The Company's Class A Common Stock is not entitled to any voting rights except for the right as a class to (1) approve certain mergers, charter amendments and by-law amendments and (2) elect a minority of the directors of the Company. Although not as a matter of right, the Class A stockholders have also been afforded the opportunity to vote on an advisory basis on executive compensation. Consequently, the election of a majority of the Company's directors and all other matters requiring stockholder approval are currently decided by C. James Koch, who is the founder and Chairman of the Company, as the holder of 100% of the voting rights to the outstanding shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Koch is able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of the board of directors, approval of equity-based and other executive compensation and other significant corporate and governance matters, such as approval of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and makes most material transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of Mr. Koch. While Mr. Koch is currently the 100% holder of the Company's Class B Common Stock, there is nothing that prevents Mr. Koch or his heirs from transferring some or all shares of the Class B Common Stock to others.. The Company's Operating Results and Cash Flow May Be Adversely Affected by Unfavorable Economic, Financial and Societal Market Conditions.. Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and economic conditions may directly or indirectly affect the Company's performance and operating results in a variety of ways, including: (a) prices for energy and agricultural products may rise faster than current estimates, including increases resulting from currency fluctuations; (b) the Company's key suppliers may not be able to fund their capital requirements, resulting in disruption in the supplies of the Company's raw and packaging materials; (c) the credit risks of the Company's Distributors may increase; (d) the impact of currency fluctuations on amounts owed to the Company by distributors that pay in foreign currencies; (e) the Company's credit facility, or portion thereof, may become unavailable at a time when needed by the Company to meet critical needs; (f) overall beer consumption may decline; or (g) drinkers of the Company's beers may change their purchase preferences and frequency, which might result in sales declines."
