[1] "ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this report on Form 10-K, the following Risk Factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business.. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities, including our common stock and senior notes, could decline significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment.. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Risks Related to our Business. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy.. Consumer demand for entertainment and other amenities at casino hotel properties, such as ours, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of declines in consumer confidence in the economy, including the past housing, employment and credit crises, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for bank failures, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. For example, beginning in 2007 we experienced one of the toughest economic periods in Las Vegas history. The housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in Las Vegas and other locations in which we own or invest in casino hotel properties. While the economy has improved significantly since the end of the recent economic recession, our business continues to be impacted from changes in consumer spending habits due to the recession. Our customers spend less per visit and differently than prior to the recession, including focusing more on non-gaming amenities.  We cannot say when, if ever, or to what extent, customer behavior in our various markets will fully-revert to pre-recession behavior trends.  If customers spend less per visit or customers prefer non-gaming amenities of our competitors, and we are unable to increase total visitation, our business may be adversely affected. Since our business model relies on consumer expenditures on entertainment, luxury and other discretionary items, a slowing or stoppage of the economic recovery or a return to an economic downturn will further adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Intense competition exists in the gaming industry, and we expect competition to continue to intensify.. The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. We compete with numerous casinos and hotel casinos of varying quality and size in market areas where our properties are located. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses, including online gaming websites, and could compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in the future. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. In most markets, we compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, we face competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within our market areas.. With fewer other new markets opening for development, competition in existing markets has intensified in recent years. We and our competitors have invested in expanding existing facilities, developing new facilities, and acquiring established facilities in existing markets. This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we compete, and this intense competition can be expected to continue. For example, in December 2014, a new property opened in Lake Charles, Louisiana, that increased competition with Delta Downs Racetrack Casino & Hotel. At the end of December 2015, a new casino opened in D'Iberville, Mississippi that competes with IP Casino Resort Spa. In Illinois, the legalization of video lottery terminals in recent years has added more than 22,000 new gaming devices across the state, including nearly 4,000 in the immediate market of the Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino, increasing competition for that property. In January 2018, a new tribal casino in South Bend,. 10. Indiana opened, which competes with Blue Chip for gaming customers. Additionally, competition may intensify if our competitors commit additional resources to aggressive pricing and promotional activities in order to attract customers.. Also, our business may be adversely impacted by the additional gaming and room capacity in states where we operate or intend to operate. Several states are also considering enabling the development and operation of casinos or casino-like operations in their jurisdictions.. The possible future expansion of gaming in Wisconsin or the possible expansion of gaming in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, if approved, could impact the operating results of the Diamond Jo Dubuque. Further, Kansas Star could, in the future, face competition from the Wichita Greyhound Park, located approximately 30 miles away in Park City, Kansas. While gaming is not currently permitted in Sedgwick County, Kansas (the site of the Wichita Greyhound Park), the Kansas Expanded Lottery Act permits the installation of slot machines at race tracks under certain conditions. If the Kansas legislature authorized a new gaming referendum in Sedgwick County and such referendum was approved, and certain other regulatory conditions were satisfied, the Wichita Greyhound Park could be permitted to install slot machines.. We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands. Expansion of Native American gaming in areas located near our properties, or in areas in or near those from which we draw our customers, could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, increased competition from federally recognized Native American tribes near Blue Chip and Sam's Town Shreveport has had a negative impact on our results. Native American gaming facilities typically have a significant operating advantage over our properties due to lower gaming fees or taxes, allowing those facilities to market more aggressively and to expand or update their facilities at an accelerated rate. Although we expanded our facility at Blue Chip in an effort to be more competitive in this market, competing Native American properties could continue to have an adverse impact on the operations of both Blue Chip and Sam's Town Shreveport. Kansas Star may face additional competition in the Wichita, Kansas metropolitan area. The Wyandotte Nation of Oklahoma previously filed an application with the U.S. Department of Interior to have certain land located in Park City, Kansas (in the Wichita metro area) taken into trust by the U.S. Government and to permit gaming. In July 2014, the U.S. Department of Interior rejected the Wyandotte Nation's trust application for the Park City land. However, the Nation has indicated it will seek to appeal this ruling. If an appeal were filed and ultimately successful, the Wyandotte Nation would be permitted to open a Class II gaming facility, and upon successful negotiation of a compact with the State of Kansas would be permitted to open a Class III gaming facility.. In addition, we also compete to some extent with other forms of gaming on both a local and national level, including state-sponsored lotteries, charitable gaming, on-and off-track wagering, and other forms of entertainment, including motion pictures, sporting events and other recreational activities. It is possible that these secondary competitors could reduce the number of visitors to our facilities or the amount they are willing to wager, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue or maintain our profitability and cash flows.. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they attract customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if they operate in jurisdictions that give them operating advantages due to differences or changes in gaming regulations or taxes, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around the locations in which we conduct business, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, increased competition may require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our properties, including updating slot machines to reflect changing technology, refurbishing public service areas periodically, replacing obsolete equipment on an ongoing basis and making other expenditures to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities. Because we are highly leveraged, after satisfying our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake these expenditures or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected.. 11. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets.. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets, we test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. We perform our annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of October 1. While no impairment charges were recorded as a result of the 2017 test, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $36.9 million in connection with the 2016 annual impairment test, comprised of impairment charges of $23.6 million to the Par-A-Dice gaming license, $12.5 million to Amelia Belle goodwill, and $0.8 million to trademarks in the Midwest and South segment. In connection with the 2015 annual impairment test, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $17.5 million to the Par-A-Dice gaming license.. If our estimates of projected cash flows related to our assets are not achieved, we may be subject to future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements.. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions.. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing gaming facilities. For example, on December 18, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement with Penn National Gaming, Inc. to acquire four properties in the Midwest and on December 20, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement with Valley Forge Convention Center Partners, L.P., to acquire Valley Forge Casino Resort in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania (together the \"Pending Acquisitions\"). In the future, we may also pursue expansion opportunities, including joint ventures, in jurisdictions where casino gaming is not currently permitted in order to be prepared to develop projects upon approval of casino gaming.. Although we only intend to engage in acquisitions that, if consummated, will be accretive to us and our shareholders, acquisitions require significant management attention and resources to integrating new properties, businesses and operations. Additionally, once the Pending Acquisitions have closed, we will need to successfully integrate the additional properties into Boyd Gaming's operating structure in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the Pending Acquisitions. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully incorporate the assets in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and other benefits anticipated to result from the Pending Acquisitions;. • complexities associated with managing the combined business, including difficulty addressing possible differences in cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Pending Acquisitions.. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in:. • diversion of the attention of our management; and. • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies,. any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations, including the properties associated with the Pending Acquisitions into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or approvals for new projects that we may pursue or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved.. Ballot measures or other voter-approved initiatives to allow gaming in jurisdictions where gaming, or certain types of gaming (such as slots), was not previously permitted could be challenged, and, if such challenges are successful, these ballot measures or initiatives could be invalidated. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that there will not be similar or other challenges to legalized gaming in existing or current markets in which we may operate or have development plans, and successful challenges to legalized gaming could require us to abandon or substantially curtail our operations or development plans in those locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 12. There can be no assurance that we will not face similar challenges and difficulties with respect to new development projects or expansion efforts that we may undertake, which could result in significant sunk costs that we may not be able to fully recoup or that otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to consummate the Pending Acquisitions is contingent upon the receipt of governmental approvals and satisfaction of certain closing conditions.. The consummation of the Pending Acquisitions is subject to customary conditions and the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, including, among others, approval by the state gaming commissions and the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (\"HSR\"), as amended. In addition, the Penn National Purchase is also contingent upon the successful completion of Penn National's proposed acquisition of Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. Further, the review of the Pending Acquisitions by the state gaming commissions is currently ongoing, and we have not yet received approval for from the state gaming commissions. If we fail to receive all such required regulatory approvals, or any required closing condition is not satisfied (or waived, where applicable), we will be unable to consummate the Pending Acquisitions and our business will be negatively affected. Such effects could include, but are not limited to, the failure to recognize the anticipated benefits of the Pending Acquisitions, the loss of management's time and the expense expended with respect to investigating, entering into, and attempting to consummate such acquisition, as well as other related costs to Boyd Gaming's business. Further, the failure to consummate the Penn National Purchase could result in a reverse termination fee payment of up to $58 million in certain circumstances.. Our expansion and development opportunities may face significant risks inherent in construction projects.. We regularly evaluate expansion, development, investment and renovation opportunities.. Any such development projects are subject to many other risks inherent in the expansion or renovation of an existing enterprise or construction of a new enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory, environmental and operating problems and lack of demand for our projects. Our current and future projects could also experience:. • changes to plans and specifications;. • delays and significant cost increases;. • shortages of materials;. • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages for contractors and subcontractors;. • labor disputes or work stoppages;. • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors;. • health and safety incidents and site accidents;. • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications;. • poor performance or nonperformance by any of our joint venture partners or other third parties on whom we place reliance;. • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming facilities, real estate development or construction projects;. • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, environmental, permitting, construction or geological problems;. • environmental issues, including the discovery of unknown environmental contamination;. • weather interference, floods, fires or other casualty losses;. • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases; and. • failure to obtain necessary licenses, permits, entitlements or other governmental approvals.. 13. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs of our construction projects or delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our construction projects, which could materially adversely affect our plan of operations, financial condition and ability to satisfy our debt obligations.. In addition, actual costs and construction periods for any of our projects can differ significantly from initial expectations. Our initial project costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared at inception of the project in consultation with architects and contractors. Many of these costs can increase over time as the project is built to completion. We can provide no assurance that any project will be completed on time, if at all, or within established budgets, or that any project will result in increased earnings to us. Significant delays, cost overruns, or failures of our projects to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we design our projects to minimize disruption of our existing business operations, expansion and renovation projects require, from time to time, all or portions of affected existing operations to be closed or disrupted. Any significant disruption in operations of a property could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The failure to obtain necessary government approvals in a timely manner, or at all, can adversely impact our various expansion, development, investment and renovation projects.. Certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for some of our current or anticipated projects have not yet been obtained. The scope of the approvals required for expansion, development, investment or renovation projects can be extensive and may include gaming approvals, state and local land-use permits and building and zoning permits. Unexpected changes or concessions required by local, state or federal regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and delay the scheduled openings of the facilities. We may not obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals within the anticipated time frames, or at all.. Failure to maintain the integrity of our information technology systems, protect our internal information, or comply with applicable privacy and data security regulations could adversely affect us.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to process customer transactions, manage customer data, manage employee data and communicate with third-party vendors and other third parties, and we may also access the internet to use our computer systems. Our operations require that we collect and store customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information, for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. We also collect and store personal information about our employees. Breaches of our security measures or information technology systems or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive personal information or confidential data about us, or our customers, or our employees including the potential loss or disclosure of such information as a result of hacking or other cyber-attack, computer virus, fraudulent use by customers, employees or employees of third party vendors, trickery or other forms of deception or unauthorized use, or due to system failure, could expose us, our customers, our employees or other individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our casino or brand names and reputations or otherwise harm our business. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer information, such as payment card, employee information and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly, however they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data security measures could be significant.. Additionally, the collection of customer and employee personal information imposes various privacy compliance related obligations on our business and increases the risks associated with a breach or failure of the integrity of our information technology systems. The collection and use of personal information is governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third party service providers engaged by us) may also result in damage of reputation, result in vulnerabilities that could be exploited to breach our systems and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of personal information.. While we maintain cyber insurance coverage to protect against these risks to the Company, such insurance is unlikely to fully mitigate the impact of any information breach.. 14. Risks Related to the Regulation of our Industry. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, as well as federal, state and local laws affecting business in general, which may harm our business.. Our ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive laws, regulations and ordinances which are administered by the Nevada Gaming Commission and Gaming Control Board, Mississippi Gaming Commission, Indiana Gaming Commission, Illinois Gaming Board, Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission, the Kansas Lottery Commission, the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, the Louisiana State Gaming Control Board, the Louisiana State Racing Commission and various other federal, state and local government entities and agencies. We are subject to regulations that apply specifically to the gaming industry and horse racetracks and casinos, in addition to regulations applicable to businesses generally. A more detailed description of the governmental gaming regulations to which we are subject is filed as Exhibit 99.1 herewith. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and our company.. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our properties. However, we can give no assurance that any additional licenses, permits and approvals that may be required will be given or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be revoked. Renewal is subject to, among other things, continued satisfaction of suitability requirements. Any failure to renew or maintain our licenses or to receive new licenses when necessary would have a material adverse effect on us.. Gambling. Legislative or administrative changes in applicable legal requirements, including legislation to prohibit casino gaming, have been proposed in the past. For example, in 1996, the State of Louisiana adopted a statute in connection with which votes were held locally where gaming operations were conducted and which, had the continuation of gaming been rejected by the voters, might have resulted in the termination of operations at the end of their current license terms. During the 1996 local gaming referendums, Lafayette Parish voted to disallow gaming in the Parish, whereas St. Landry Parish, the site of our racino, voted in favor of gaming. All parishes where riverboat gaming operations are currently conducted voted to continue riverboat gaming, but there can be no guarantee that similar referenda might not produce unfavorable results in the future. Proposals to amend or supplement the Louisiana Riverboat Economic Development and Gaming Control Act and the Pari-Mutuel Act also are frequently introduced in the Louisiana State legislature. In the 2001 session, a representative from Orleans Parish introduced a proposal to repeal the authority of horse racetracks in Calasieu Parish (the site of Delta Downs) and St. Landry Parish (the site of Evangeline Downs) to conduct slot machine gaming at such horse racetracks and to repeal the special taxing districts created for such purposes. If adopted, this proposal would have effectively prohibited us from operating the casino portion of our racino. In addition, the Louisiana legislature, from time to time, considers proposals to repeal the Pari-Mutuel Act.. The legislation permitting gaming in Iowa authorizes the granting of licenses to \"qualified sponsoring organizations.\" Such \"qualified sponsoring organizations\" may operate the gambling structure itself, subject to satisfying necessary licensing requirements, or it may enter into an agreement with an operator to operate gambling on its behalf. An operator must be approved and licensed by the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission. The Dubuque Racing Association (\"DRA\"), a not-for-profit corporation organized for the purpose of operating a pari-mutuel greyhound racing facility in Dubuque, Iowa, first received a riverboat gaming license in 1990 and, pursuant to the Amended DRA Operating Agreement, has served as the \"qualified sponsoring organization\" of the Diamond Jo since March 18, 1993. The term of the Amended DRA Operating Agreement expires on December 31, 2018. Diamond Jo Dubuque has entered into an amendment to the existing operating agreement with the qualified sponsoring organization. The new agreement will go into effect on January 1, 2019 and will extend for twelve years, expiring on December 31, 2030. The agreement is subject to review and approval by the state gaming commission. The Worth County Development Authority (\"WCDA\"), pursuant to the WCDA Operating Agreement, serves as the \"qualified sponsoring organization\" of Diamond Jo Worth. The term of the WCDA Operating Agreement expires on March 31, 2025, and is subject to automatic ten-year renewal periods. If the Amended DRA Operating Agreement or WCDA Operating Agreement were to terminate, or if the DRA or WCDA were to otherwise discontinue acting as our \"qualified sponsoring organization\" with respect to our operation of the Diamond Jo or Diamond Jo Worth, respectively, and we were unable to obtain approval from the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission to partner with an alternative \"qualified sponsoring organization\" as required by our gaming license, we would no longer be able to continue our Diamond Jo or Diamond Jo Worth operations, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Regulation of Smoking. Illinois has adopted laws that significantly restrict, or otherwise ban, smoking at our properties in those jurisdictions. The Illinois laws that restrict smoking at casinos, and similar legislation in other jurisdictions in which we operate, could materially impact the results of operations of our properties in those jurisdictions. Indiana imposes a state wide smoking ban in specified businesses, buildings, public places and other articulated locations. Indiana's statute specifically exempted riverboat casinos, and all other gaming facilities in Indiana, from the smoking ban; however, the statute also allowed local governments to enact more restrictive smoking bans than the state statute and also left in place any more restrictive local legislation that existed as of the effective date of the statute. To date, neither Michigan City nor LaPorte County, where Blue Chip is located, has enacted any ordinance or other law that would impose a smoking ban on Blue Chip.. Regulation of Directors, Officers, Key Employees and Partners. Our directors, officers, key employees, joint venture partners and certain shareholders must meet approval standards of certain state regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find a person occupying any such position, a joint venture partner, or shareholder unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person, or the joint venture partner or shareholder may be required to dispose of their interest. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards.. Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions that we are party to also require the approval of some state regulatory authorities.. Live Racing Regulations. Louisiana gaming regulations and our gaming license for the Evangeline Downs and Delta Downs require that we, among other things, conduct a minimum of 80 live racing days in a consecutive 20-week period each year of live horse race meetings at the horse racetrack. Live racing days typically vary in number from year to year and are based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of suitable race horses and the occurrence of severe weather. If we fail to have the minimum number of racing days, our gaming license with respect to the racino may be canceled, and the casino will be required to cease operations. Any cessation of our operation would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Regulations Affecting Businesses in General. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, Nevada enacted legislation that eliminated, in most instances, and, for certain pre-existing development projects, reduced, property tax breaks and retroactively eliminated certain sales tax exemptions offered as incentives to companies developing projects that meet certain environmental \"green\" standards. As a result, we, along with other companies developing projects that meet such standards, have not been able to realize the full tax benefits that were originally anticipated.. We are subject to extensive taxation policies, which may harm our business.. The federal government has, from time to time, considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. If such an increase were to be enacted, it could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flow. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance casino development projects could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, gaming companies are often subject to significant state and local taxes and fees, in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time and which increase may be retroactive to prior years.. Currently, in Iowa, we are taxed at an effective rate of approximately 21.5% of our adjusted gross receipts by the State of Iowa, we pay the city of Dubuque a fee equal to $500,000 per year and we pay a fee equal to 4.5% and 5.76% of adjusted gross receipts to the DRA and WCDA, respectively. In addition, all Iowa gaming licensees share equally in the costs of the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission and related entities to administer gaming in Iowa, which is currently approximately $0.8 million per year per facility. Currently, at Evangeline Downs, we are taxed at an effective rate of approximately 36.5% of our adjusted gross slot revenue and pay to the Louisiana State Racing Commission a fee of $0.25 for each patron who enters the racino on live race days from the hours of 6:00 pm to midnight, enters the racino during non-racing season from the hours of noon to midnight Thursday through Monday, or enters any one of our off-track betting parlors. Our Amelia Belle riverboat casino in Louisiana pays an annual state gaming tax rate of 21.5% of adjusted gross receipts. In April 2017, the agreement Amelia Belle had with the Parish of St. Mary to permit the berthing of the riverboat casino in Amelia, Louisiana was modified. Prior to June 1, 2017, Amelia Belle paid. 16. a percentage fee based on the level of net gaming revenue as follows: the first $60 million, 2.5%; $60 to $96 million, 3.5%; and greater than $96 million, 5.0%. The annual minimum fee due under this agreement was $1.5 million. Under the revised agreement with the Parish of St. Mary, Amelia Belle was to pay a flat fee of $1.5 million by June 1, 2017, which was met. Subsequent annual payments are due on June 15th of each year based on a net gaming proceeds for each twelve calendar month period of operation as follows: $1.4 million fee on net gaming proceeds up to $45 million, $1.5 million fee on amounts from $45 million to $50 million, $1.6 million fee on amounts from $50 million to $52.5 million, and $1.7 million fee on net gaming proceeds above $52.5 million. Kansas Star, pursuant to its Management Contract with the State of Kansas pays total taxes of between 27% and 31% of gross gaming revenue, based on achievement of the following revenue levels: 27% on gross gaming revenue up to $180 million, 29% on amounts from $180 million to $220 million, and 31% on amounts above $220 million in gross gaming revenue. Kansas Star is also contractually obligated to pay its proportionate share of certain expenses incurred by the Kansas Lottery Commission and the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, which historically have ranged from $3.0 million to $3.5 million on an annual basis.. If there is any material increase in state and local taxes and fees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Properties. We own real property and are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities, and could affect our ability to develop, sell or rent our property or to borrow money where such property is required to be used as collateral.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, including those governing discharges to air and water, the generation, handling, management and disposal of petroleum products or hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. Permits may be required for our operations and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in some cases, revocation. In addition, under environmental laws, ordinances or regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of investigation and removal or remediation of some kinds of hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under, or in its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. Additionally, as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. The liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property.. The presence of, or failure to remediate properly, such substances may adversely affect the ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Additionally, the owner of a site may be subject to claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site.. As part of our business in Worth County, Iowa, we operate a gas station, which includes a number of underground storage tanks containing petroleum products.. We have reviewed environmental assessments, in some cases including soil and groundwater testing, relating to our currently owned and leased properties in Dubuque, Iowa, and other properties we may lease from the City of Dubuque or other parties. As a result, we have become aware that there is contamination present on some of these properties apparently due to past industrial activities. Furthermore, the location of Kansas Star is the site of several non-operational oil wells, the remediation of which has been addressed in connection with the construction of the development project there. We have also reviewed environmental assessments and are not aware of any environmental liabilities related to any of our other properties.. Future developments regarding environmental matters could lead to material costs of environmental compliance for us and such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Additionally, our horse racing operations are subject to oversight by the Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\"), including regulations governing concentrated animal feeding operations and the related processing of animal waste water. In 2015, Delta Downs commenced a remediation project, as a result of an EPA examination, to ensure its future compliance with the Clean Water Act. However, the ongoing operations of our horse racing operations could result in future violations of EPA regulations and exposure to associated potential fines.. We own facilities that are located in areas that experience extreme weather conditions.. Extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in the affected areas.. 17. For example, certain of the properties we operate have been forced to close for extended periods due to floods and hurricanes, including Treasure Chest and Delta Downs, which have experienced closures for over 40 days on separate occasions in the past.. Blue Chip, Par-A-Dice, Sam's Town Tunica, Sam's Town Shreveport and Treasure Chest are each located in an area that has been identified by the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (\"FEMA\") as a special flood hazard area, which, according to FEMA statistics, has a 1% chance of a flood equal to or exceeding the base flood elevation (a 100-year flood) in any given year. Furthermore, our properties in Iowa, Kansas, Illinois and Indiana are at risk of experiencing snowstorms, tornadoes and flooding.. In addition to the risk of flooding and hurricanes, snowstorms and other adverse weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in an affected area. For example, during the first quarter of 2011, and again in 2014, much of the country was impacted by unusually severe winter weather, particularly in the Midwest. These storms made it very difficult for our customers to visit, and we believe such winter weather had a material and adverse impact on the results of our operations during such times. If there is a prolonged disruption at any of our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. To maintain our gaming licenses for our Evangeline Downs and Delta Downs racinos, we must conduct a minimum of 80 live racing days in a consecutive 20-week period each year of live horse race meetings at each racetrack, and poor weather conditions may make it difficult for us to comply with this requirement.. While we maintain insurance coverage that may cover certain of the costs and loss of revenue that we incur as a result of some extreme weather conditions, our coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect, if at all, on any claims resulting from extreme weather conditions. If any of our properties are damaged or if their operations are disrupted as a result of extreme weather in the future, or if extreme weather adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which they draw their patrons, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer, our insurance costs may increase, and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future.. Although we have \"all risk\" property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses.. We also have \"builder's risk\" insurance coverage for our development and expansion projects. Builder's risk insurance provides coverage for projects during their construction for damage caused by a casualty loss. In general, our builder's risk coverage is subject to the same exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those described above for our all-risk property coverage. Our level of builder's risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty.. We maintain cyber insurance coverage that insures against certain expenses incurred by the Company in the event of any information breach, as well as insuring against certain costs and damages associated with losses by third parties.  However, such insurance is unlikely to fully mitigate the impact of such an information breach.. Blue Chip, Par-A-Dice, Sam's Town Tunica, Sam's Town Shreveport and Treasure Chest are each located in an area that has been identified by the director of the FEMA as a special flood hazard area. Our level of flood insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major flood.. We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage.. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to meet certain standards related to insurance coverage. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements.. 18. We draw a significant percentage of our customers from certain geographic regions. Events adversely impacting the economy or these regions, including public health outbreaks and man-made or natural disasters, may adversely impact our business.. The California, Fremont and Main Street Station draw a substantial portion of their customers from the Hawaiian market, with such customers historically comprising more than half of the room nights sold at each property. Decreases in discretionary consumer spending, as well as an increase in fuel costs or transportation prices, a decrease in airplane seat availability, or a deterioration of relations with tour and travel agents, particularly as they affect travel between the Hawaiian market and our facilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Las Vegas properties also draw a substantial number of customers from certain other specific geographic areas, including the Southern California, Arizona and Las Vegas local markets. Native American casinos in California and other parts of the United States have diverted some potential visitors away from Nevada, which has had and could continue to have a negative effect on Nevada gaming markets. In addition, due to our significant concentration of properties in Nevada, any man-made or natural disasters in or around Nevada, or the areas from which we draw customers to our Las Vegas properties, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our properties located outside of Nevada depends primarily on visitors from their respective surrounding regions and are subject to comparable risk.. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of amenities our properties offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. Terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere, military conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, outbreaks of infectious disease and pandemics, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures. In addition, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of further economic decline and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. We cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in tourism could significantly harm our operations.. Energy price increases may adversely affect our cost of operations and our revenues.. Our casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. In addition, our Hawaiian air charter operation uses a significant amount of jet fuel. While no shortages of energy or fuel have been experienced to date, substantial increases in energy and fuel prices, including jet fuel prices, in the United States have, and may continue to, negatively affect our results of operations. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, of which the impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases could result in a decline of disposable income of potential customers, an increase in the cost of travel and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at our properties, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our facilities, including our riverboats and dockside facilities, are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure and regulatory compliance.. Generally, all of our facilities are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as the result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure, or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, our gaming operations, including those conducted on riverboats or at dockside facilities could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions.. We currently conduct our Treasure Chest, Par-A-Dice, Blue Chip, Sam's Town Shreveport and Amelia Belle gaming operations on riverboats. Each of our riverboats must comply with the United States Coast Guard (\"USCG\") requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. Each riverboat must hold a Certificate of Inspection for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning codes. The USCG requirements establish design standards, set limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with the operation of the vessels. Loss of a vessel's Certificate of Inspection would preclude its use as a casino.. USCG regulations require a hull inspection for all riverboats at five-year intervals. Under certain circumstances, alternative hull inspections may be approved. The USCG may require that such hull inspections be conducted at a dry-docking facility, and if so required, the cost of travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections of the affected riverboats, could be significant. To date, the USCG has allowed in-place underwater inspections of our riverboats twice every five years on alternate two- and three-year schedules. The USCG may not continue to allow these types of inspections in the future. The loss of a dockside casino or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Indiana and Louisiana have adopted alternate inspection standards for riverboats in those states. The standards require inspection by ABS Consulting (\"ABSC\"). ABSC inspection for our riverboats at Blue Chip, Treasure Chest and Sam's Town Shreveport. 19. commenced during 2010. The Amelia Belle is also inspected by the ABSC. The Par-A-Dice riverboat will remain inspected by the USCG for the foreseeable future. ABSC imposes essentially the same design, personnel, safety, and hull inspection standards as the USCG. Therefore, the risks to our business associated with USCG inspection should not change by reason of inspection by ABSC. Failure of a vessel to meet the applicable USCG or ABSC standards would preclude its use as a casino.. USCG regulations also require us to prepare and follow certain security programs. In 2004, we implemented the American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program at our riverboat casinos and dockside facilities. The American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program is specifically designed to address maritime security requirements at riverboat casinos and their respective dockside facilities. Only portions of those regulations will apply to our riverboats inspected by ABSC. Changes to these regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our hotels and casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected hotel and/or casino.. We lease certain parcels of land on which Eastside Cannery, Suncoast, Treasure Chest, Sam's Town Shreveport and IP's hotels and gaming facilities are located. In addition, we lease other parcels of land on which portions of the California and the Fremont are located. As a ground lessee, we have the right to use the leased land; however, we do not retain fee ownership in the underlying land. Accordingly, with respect to the leased land, we will have no interest in the land or improvements thereon at the expiration of the ground leases. Moreover, since we do not completely control the land underlying the property, a landowner could take certain actions to disrupt our rights in the land leased under the long-term leases. While such interruption is unlikely, such events are beyond our control. If the entity owning any leased land chose to disrupt our use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our business and operations could be adversely affected. If we were to default on any one or more of these leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected land and any improvements on the land, including the hotels and casinos. This would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as we would then be unable to operate all or portions of the affected facilities.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had net operating losses (\"NOLs\") for federal income tax purposes. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" as defined in that section, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may become subject to significant limitations. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of shifts in our stock ownership, which may result from the issuance of our common stock, the exercise of stock options and other equity compensation awards, as well as ordinary sales and purchases of our common stock, among other things. If an ownership change in our stock were to be triggered in the future, our subsequent ability to use any NOLs existing at that time could be significantly limited. Additionally, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act changed the carryback and carryforward periods for NOLs generated after December 31, 2017 and imposed annual limitations on the use of such NOLs. While the rules for NOLs generated prior to December 31, 2017 did not change, our NOLs all predate the change, it is possible future law changes could affect the ability to utilize NOLs prospectively.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness.. If we pursue, or continue to pursue, any expansion, development, investment or renovation projects, we expect that our long-term debt will substantially increase in connection with related capital expenditures. This indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • difficulty in satisfying our obligations under our current indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds.. 20. Our debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support;. • incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;. • make certain investments;. • dispose of assets;. • make certain acquisitions;. • pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • engage in any new businesses; and. • enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Note 7, Long-Term Debt, included in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements presented in Part II, Item 8, contains further disclosure regarding our current outstanding debt.. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. It is unlikely that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Credit Facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. We believe that we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, at or before maturity, and cannot provide assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, certain states' laws contain restrictions on the ability of companies engaged in the gaming business to undertake certain financing transactions. Some restrictions may prevent us from obtaining necessary capital.. We and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our senior notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are effectively senior to our senior notes and the guarantees of our subsidiary guarantors to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such borrowings. If new debt is added to our, or our subsidiaries', current debt levels, the related risks that we or they now face could intensify.. If we are unable to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as other capital expenditures, through cash flow, borrowings under the Credit Facility, access to the capital markets and additional financings, our expansion, development, investment and renovation efforts will be jeopardized.. We intend to finance our current and future expansion, which includes our Pending Acquisitions, development, investment and renovation projects, as well as our other capital expenditures, primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our Credit Facility, and equity or debt financings. If we are unable to finance our current or future expansion, including our Pending Acquisitions, development, investment and renovation projects, or our other capital expenditures, we will have to adopt one or. 21. more alternatives, such as reducing, delaying or abandoning planned expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, terminating our Pending Acquisitions, as well as other capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, obtaining additional equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying the Credit Facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, failure to consummate our Pending Acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business, and with respect to the Penn National Purchase could result in a reverse termination fee payment of up to $58 million in certain circumstances. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. Although we successfully refinanced a significant amount of our indebtedness in 2015, 2016 and 2017, we have no assurance that we will continue to have access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that we would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our ability to refinance Boyd Gaming's indebtedness, our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability or willingness to fund new development projects.. In the past, there have been significant disruptions in the global capital markets that adversely impacted the ability of borrowers to access capital. A crisis may greatly restrict the availability of capital and cause the cost of capital (if available) to be much higher than it has traditionally been. Although the financial markets have generally recovered from the most recent financial crisis and availability of capital has increased, the financial markets remain volatile. While we currently anticipate that we will be able to fund any expansion projects using cash flows from operations and availability under the Credit Facility (to the extent that availability exists after we meet our working capital needs), if availability under our Credit Facility does not exist or we are otherwise unable to make sufficient borrowings thereunder, any additional financing that is needed may not be available to us or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to us. As a result, if we are unable to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner, or at all, we may be forced to sell assets in order to raise capital for projects, limit the scope of, or defer such projects, or cancel the projects altogether. In the event that we are unable to access capital with favorable terms, additional equity and/or credit support may be necessary to obtain construction financing for the remaining cost of the project.. We are not able to predict the duration or strength of the current economic recovery, the resulting impact on the solvency or liquidity of our lenders, or the possibility of a future recession. Prolonged slow growth or a downturn, or further worsening or broadening of adverse conditions in worldwide and domestic economies could affect our lenders. If a large percentage of our lenders were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we may not have the liquidity under the Credit Facility to fund our current projects. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under the Credit Facility. If we were otherwise required to renegotiate or replace the Credit Facility, there is no assurance that we would be able to secure terms that are as favorable to us, if at all.. Risks Related to our Equity Ownership. Our common stock price may fluctuate substantially, and a shareholder's investment could decline in value.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;. • announcements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or by our competitors;. • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future;. • trading volume of our common stock;. • conditions and trends in the gaming and destination entertainment industries;. • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and. • general economic conditions, including, without limitation, changes in the cost of fuel and air travel.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies' operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. 22. Certain of our stockholders own large interests in our capital stock and may significantly influence our affairs.. William S. Boyd, our Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, together with his immediate family, beneficially owned approximately 27% of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2017. As such, the Boyd family has the ability to significantly influence our affairs, including the election of members of our Board of Directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving other matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including a merger, consolidation, or sale of assets."
