[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment.. <U+0095>   Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease.. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. As discussed above under the caption \"THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT and FIELD  -  Reserve Estimates\", Royalty payments to the Trust, based on calculations using a 2017 WTI Price of $51.34 per barrel, among other prescribed variables, are projected to cease after 2019.. Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2017, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected.. <U+0095>   Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which are subject to volatility, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future.. WTI Prices, like prices in the global crude oil market generally, are subject to periodic fluctuations and significant volatility. This was dramatically demonstrated by the steep decline in WTI Prices from more than $100 per barrel in June 2014 to around $27 dollars per barrel in early 2016. Recent price changes also provide evidence of this volatility. WTI prices increased $5.43 per barrel from January 2 to February 1, 2018. From a price of $65.80 per barrel on February 1, 2018, WTI prices fell below $60 dollars per barrel on February 9, 2018 as world stock markets fell sharply.. Even before the 2014 plunge in oil price, the general trend of WTI price increases had moderated as a result of increasing volumes of crude oil production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation, situated in the northwest portion of North Dakota (and extending into Montana and portions of Canada), moving into the U.S. Midwest market. Oil production in the United States also surged owing, in part, to a dramatic increase in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other technological advances in oil detection and extraction. This great increase in output from the U.S. helped lead to an oversupply in the global crude market. While the global crude oil market became oversupplied, global demand was declining, with the result that global oil prices dropped more than 70% from June 2014 through the middle of February 2016. As a result of this imbalance, U.S. production declined by over one million barrels per day by mid-2016 from a peak of 9.6 million barrels per day in June 2015 as U.S. oil companies discontinued most exploration and drilling operations.. The decline in global oil prices was halted in the first quarter of 2016 as the falling U.S. production and increased global demand led to generally increasing oil prices following the lows reached in early 2016. In June 2016, oil prices settled over $50 per barrel for the first time in almost a year on higher than expected draws on U.S. crude oil stockpiles and concerns about global supply shortfalls. Oil prices. 21. Table of Contents. received additional support later in 2016 when OPEC and eleven non-OPEC countries, including Russia, agreed to curtail production for the first six months of 2017 in an attempt to remove supply from the global market.. As a result of these events, it was widely anticipated at the beginning of 2017 that oil prices would remain relatively stable in 2017 and trade in a range of $50 to $55 per barrel. However, there were several large price swings during the first half of 2017 as U.S. output increased and doubts grew over the ability of OPEC to decrease production sufficiently to have a significant effect on the oil market. Extended spring maintenance at refineries within and outside of the U.S. also reduced the amount of crude oil being refined, which contributed to an unexpected build-up of crude oil stocks and exerted further downward pressure on oil prices. Once this maintenance ended and draws on crude oil supplies resumed, prices began to rise again. The price rise also reflected growing expectations that, as a result of the fluctuations in crude oil stocks during the first half of the year, OPEC would agree to not only extend but increase its agreed-upon production cuts at its mid-year meeting. However, prices fell again when OPEC announced its decision to maintain production volumes at current levels and to extend its production agreement only through March 2018. In addition, reports that a number of U.S shale operators had significantly increased spending gave rise to fears of increasing global supply. These factors contributed renewed downward pressure on oil prices, which declined into the low $40s in June 2017.. Despite these concerns during the first half of the year, data in the summer of 2017 indicated that global demand for oil was strong and that refineries were increasing runs following the period of maintenance earlier in the year. As a result, global levels of crude oil stocks began to decline. This, together with other factors, such as evidence that the OPEC deal was being effectively implemented, supported global expectations of rising crude oil prices.    Other unanticipated events also bolstered oil prices during the second half of 2017, such as Hurricane Harvey, which interrupted a significant portion of refining capacity and offshore crude production in the region of the U.S. Gulf Coast, and the temporary shutdown of the Keystone pipeline following a leak of approximately 210,000 gallons of oil in South Dakota in November 2017.    In addition, OPEC announced at its annual November meeting that the cartel and the other non-OPEC producers had agreed to extend the 2016 production agreement through the end of 2018. Following this announcement, crude oil prices rose to their highest levels of the year up to that point. Brent crude received additional price support in December due to the closure of the North Sea's Forties crude oil pipeline system, which is one of the primary distribution networks for Brent crude oil delivery in the North Sea, because of a hairline crack found in an onshore portion of the pipeline. Also in December, news of an explosion at a Libyan crude oil pipeline that carries crude oil to Libya's largest oil export terminal added to expectations of a reduction in oil supplies.. This rise in crude oil prices in the second half of 2017 occurred despite robust increases in U.S. crude oil production. This production increase was led by strong onshore production (especially in the Permian basin area largely contained in the western part of Texas and the southeastern part of New Mexico) with an estimated increase of nearly 330,000 barrels per day from 2016 to 2017. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (\"EIA\") also estimated in its February 2018 Short-Term Energy Outlook (the \"February STEO\") that total U.S. crude oil production averaged 9.3 million barrels per day in 2017. Despite this production increase, EIA estimated in the February STEO that global petroleum and other liquid fuels inventories fell by an average of 0.5 million barrels per day in 2017. This was the first year of annual average drawdown of global inventories since 2013. As a result of these factors, WTI prices finished 2017 averaging more than $51 per barrel, which was $7 per barrel higher than in 2016. Strong global demand for crude oil in 2017 also supported prices, with global oil consumption rising more than the historical average, according to the International Energy Agency (\"IEA\").. 22. Table of Contents. With respect to 2018, EIA forecasts that total U.S. crude oil production will average 10.6 million barrels per day in 2018, which would eclipse the previous record for the highest annual average U.S. production of 9.6 million barrels per day in 1970. The IEA also announced that it expects U.S. crude oil production in 2018 to surpass that of Saudi Arabia. Although forecasts of continuing global economic growth suggest that there will be continued strong demand for crude oil and petroleum products in the near term, EIA expects that global oil inventories will rise by 0.2 million barrels per day in 2018 and 2019. EIA forecasts that this anticipated build-up of inventory in 2018 and 2019 will result in crude oil prices averaging $60 per barrel during the first quarter of 2018. EIA then expects oil prices to remain relatively flat through 2019.. Although crude oil prices rose generally in 2017, WTI prices averaged $6 per barrel less in the fourth quarter of 2017 than Brent crude - the other main crude oil benchmark - after previously trading at a difference of between $2 and $3 for most of the preceding 18 months. EIA forecasts that WTI crude oil prices will be $4 per barrel lower than Brent prices in 2018 and in 2019, which would be a narrowing of the $6 per barrel average price difference seen in the fourth quarter of 2017. EIA bases this forecast on the assumption that certain limitations on the capacity to transport crude oil from the Cushing, Oklahoma storage hub to the Gulf Coast will be alleviated. In prior periods, Cushing has occasionally become oversupplied due to new oil flows from Canada and the United States. Historically, this market had been reliant on high-cost rail and trucks to ship both crude oil stored at Cushing and production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation to the Gulf Coast. These constraints on transportation of crude oil out of the U.S. Midwest market, together with the great increase in production in North America and the decades-long U.S. ban on crude oil exports, had helped to weigh down WTI spot prices for several years and kept the price of WTI crude oil at a historic discount to globally traded waterborne crudes such as Brent. Prior to that period, WTI, which is generally a sweeter and lighter crude oil than Brent, had been more likely to trade at a premium to Brent.. After diverging in 2011 to a high of around $30 per barrel, with Brent the more expensive oil, the spread between WTI and Brent gradually decreased as these transportation problems were largely resolved. For example, the direction of the Seaway crude oil pipeline was reversed in 2012 and pump station additions and modifications were subsequently made. In 2014 the \"Seaway Twin\" pipeline running parallel to the reversed Seaway pipeline was opened. Also in 2014, the Cushing MarketLink phase of the Keystone pipeline went into operation. This portion of the Keystone pipeline starts at Cushing, where American-produced oil is added to the pipeline's Canadian oil. The pipeline then runs south to terminals in Nederland, Texas near refineries located in the Port Arthur, Texas area. The Houston Lateral pipeline also began operating in 2017. This is a 47-mile pipeline transporting crude oil from the MarketLink pipeline in Liberty County, Texas, to refineries and terminals in the Houston area. However, closures of the Seaway pipelines due to spills in October 2016 and early 2017 highlight the risk that prolonged shutdowns of these or other pipeline projects out of Cushing could contribute to rising inventory levels, particularly if such shutdowns should coincide with increased volumes of crude oil flowing into Cushing.. Such increases could occur as U.S. production continues to increase in response to the upward direction of crude oil prices in 2017 and early 2018. Also, even greater amounts of crude oil are expected to be arriving at Cushing following the approval by the Trump administration in January 2017 of a permit allowing TransCanada to build the Keystone XL pipeline and the approval by the Nebraska Public Service Commission of a new route for the pipeline in November 2017.    Nebraska was the only state that had not yet approved the route of the pipeline.. TransCanada expects construction of Keystone XL to begin in 2019 and forecasts that Keystone XL will eventually carry up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day. This could significantly increase the total. 23. Table of Contents. amount of crude oil flowing into Cushing. The first part of the Keystone pipeline system, which runs through North and South Dakota, Nebraska and Missouri, went into operation in 2010 and connects Hardisty, Alberta to U.S. refineries in Illinois. The pipeline has a nominal capacity of 435,000 barrels per day. The second part of the Keystone system is a 291 mile-long pipeline connection running from Steele City, Nebraska south to Cushing, Oklahoma. This Keystone-Cushing pipeline, which opened in 2011, transports 100,000 barrels of crude oil per day to Cushing. The Keystone XL pipeline would enter the U.S. through Montana, where American-produced oil would be added to the pipeline, and would then connect with the existing Keystone pipeline at Steele City, Nebraska. This would increase the amount of oil in the Keystone system flowing east to Illinois refineries and south to Cushing.. While insufficient outgoing pipeline capacity capable of transporting the crude oil entering Cushing could depress WTI prices, pipeline capacity out of Cushing was increased in December 2017, when the Plains All American and Valero Diamond Pipeline went into operation. This pipeline, with a capacity of 200,000 barrel per day, connects Cushing to Valero's refinery in Memphis, Tennessee. According to the EIA, the increase of volumes flowing through the Diamond Pipeline was the main reason for the sharp decline in crude oil stocks at Cushing reported in January 2018, which were down 40 percent compared to a year earlier.. The spread between the Brent price and the price of U.S. domestic production could also be affected by the lifting of the U.S. ban on crude oil exports introduced in the 1970's. This ban was lifted in December 2015. The removal of the ban could contribute to wider use of WTI as a global benchmark. Although the U.S. continues to be a net importer of oil (due, among other reasons, to U.S. refineries having been designed to process much heavier crudes), weekly U.S. crude oil exports reached a record level of 2.13 million barrels per day in the week ended October 27, 2017. Also in 2017, China passed the U.S. as the world's largest importer of crude oil.. If OPEC and non-OPEC nations continue to adhere to the production cuts agreed to in November 2017, U.S. producers may have an opportunity to gain access to additional international markets. Although the IEA has reported that OPEC's compliance with the production cuts averaged 95% throughout 2017, the possibility of losing market share to the U.S. could jeopardize compliance with the agreed-upon production levels by OPEC and the other producing countries.. <U+0095>   The amount and value of reserves attributable to the Trust, the estimated life of the Trust, estimates of future net revenues and estimates of the present value of future net revenues fluctuate based on the WTI Price, among other factors. WTI Prices may be below the \"break-even\" point for daily royalty calculations.. As discussed above under \"THE ROYALTY INTEREST\" in Item 1, revenues to the Trust are calculated daily by BP Alaska using the WTI price, production tax, and other variables as prescribed by the Conveyance applicable on that specific day. On January 1, 2018 the \"break-even\" WTI price (at which all taxes and prescribed deductions are equal to the WTI price) was $39.26.7 The quarterly royalty payment by BP Alaska to the Trust is the sum of the individual revenues calculated each day during the quarter. In the event that one or more daily calculations results in a negative amount, the total of such daily negative amounts during that calendar quarter would be subtracted from total daily positive amounts during such quarter to determine the royalty payment for such quarter, provided, that in no event will any quarterly royalty payment be less than zero.. 7 The fixed Chargeable Cost increases specified in the Conveyance will impact the \"break-even\" price in future years.. 24. Table of Contents. The estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues reported herein are calculated based on a single average WTI price, that being the average of 12 WTI values, each value representing the WTI price in effect on the first calendar day of the month for the 12 months prior to January 1, 2018. As a result, any single calculation of a calendar day will not reflect the value of the dividend paid to the Trust for any quarter, nor will it reflect the estimated future value of the Trust or the estimation of how long royalty payments to the Trust will continue.. Based on the 2017 twelve-month average WTI Price of $51.34 per barrel, current Production Taxes, and the Chargeable Costs adjusted as prescribed by the Overriding Royalty Conveyance, it is estimated that royalty payments to the Trust will continue through the year 2019, and would be zero in the following year. Therefore, no proved reserves are currently attributed to the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust after that date. Even if expected reservoir performance does not change, the estimated reserves, economic life and future net revenues attributable to the Trust may change significantly in the future as a result of sustained periods of change in the WTI Price, the Production Tax or from changes in other prescribed variables utilized in calculations as defined by the Overriding Royalty Conveyance. Such changes could result in the termination of royalty payments prior to 2019.. While energy price forecasts are highly uncertain, EIA forecasts that Brent and WTI crude oil spot prices will average approximately $62 and $58 per barrel, respectively, in 2018 and 2019. As discussed under \"THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD  -  Reserve Estimates\", the amount and value of reserves attributable to the Trust and the estimated life of the Trust fluctuate based on changes to certain prescribed factors, including the WTI price. WTI prices at the level forecast by EIA should, subject to the effect of the other prescribed variables, result in positive royalty payments to the Trust, if such prices actually constitute the 2018 twelve-month average WTI Price (that is, the unweighted arithmetic average of the WTI price on the first day of each month during the year). If such WTI Prices are in fact lower than the 2017 twelve-month average WTI Price of $51.34, this could result, subject to the effect of the other prescribed variables, in substantial decreases in the value and the estimated life of the Trust as calculated for such periods compared to the 2017 calculations set forth under \"THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD  -  Reserve Estimates\".. However, future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors. These include changes in demand due to variations in economic activity, increased efficiency, increased demand for other types of fuel, strong production growth, new supplies from tight and shale resources, whether OPEC and other oil producing nations have been willing to intervene to stabilize oversupplied crude oil markets by cutting production or to take other measures in order to preserve or expand market share, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, geopolitical, psychological and economic factors, such as developments with respect to political unrest in Iran and the Iran nuclear deal, the continuing collapse of Venezuela's oil industry, tensions between North Korea and South Korea and the U.S., the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar (the currency in which crude oil is quoted, with crude oil prices, like prices of other commodities priced in dollars, generally moving inversely to the value of the dollar), how the policies of the U.S. administration may influence oil production and markets, expectations for global economic growth, political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East and ongoing tensions in other regions of the world and turmoil and volatility in global stock markets.. For additional information, see the history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov.. 25. Table of Contents. It is increasingly likely that the Trust's revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska's average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2015, 2016 and 2017, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter.. <U+0095>   Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment.. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill.. BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments.. <U+0095>   Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows.. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit.. In January 2011, TAPS was shut down over two periods of several days each as a result of the discovery of a leak of crude oil in the basement of a booster pump building at Pump Station No. 1. See \"THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD  -  Collection and Transportation of Prudhoe Bay Oil\" in Item 1 for additional information.. As noted above, without more crude oil to be transported by TAPS, slower flows and freezing temperatures could eventually force the closure of the pipeline, making it impossible to transport oil from the North Slope to market.    However, for the second year in a row, there was an increase in the amount. 26. Table of Contents. of oil transported by TAPS. Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, the operator of TAPS, announced that the pipeline's average throughput increased by approximately 10,000 barrels per day in 2017 compared to 2016, which amounted to a 1.5 percent increase. Before the 2016 increase, the last increase in pipeline throughput was in 2002, when the pipeline carried over one million barrels per day. The recent increases have been attributed to a combination of factors, such as better than expected performance from newer oil fields west of Prudhoe Bay, such as ConocoPhillips' CD-5 development on the North Slope in the Colville River Unit (part of the Alpine Field and the first commercial oil development on Alaska Native lands within the boundaries of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (\"NPRA\") as discussed below) and the ability of oil companies to produce oil from mature fields like Prudhoe Bay more efficiently.. Although there was an increase in volume in TAPS in 2017 compared to 2016, throughput, as noted above, averaged 527,000 barrels per day. The pipeline was designed to carry much higher volumes of oil. In 2011, a study by Alyeska raised questions as to whether TAPS could continue in operation below a throughput level of approximately 300,000 barrels per day. The EIA, which has forecast continued declining production from the North Slope, has also noted that considerable investment could be required to keep TAPS operational if throughput goes below 350,000 barrels per day.. However, in potentially significant developments for Alaska and TAPS, within the past year and a half, three companies announced oil discoveries capable of producing up to or in excess of 100,000 barrels of oil per day. Caelus Energy LLC, a small energy exploration company, announced in October 2016 that it had discovered oil in Smith Bay on Alaska's northern coast. The company reported that the field could hold as much as 6 billion barrels of oil and that it expects to be able to recover between 1.8 to 2.4 billion barrels. However, due to the complexity and expense of the project and the length of the regulatory process, oil from the discovery is not expected to flow to TAPS until 2022. In March of 2017, a partnership between Spanish oil company Repsol and its U.S. partner, Armstrong Energy, announced a significant oil discovery in the Nanushuk formation located across the central and western portion of the North Slope. The partnership predicted that production could begin as soon as 2021 and could produce as much as 120,000 barrels of oil per day. According to the partnership, the discovery, located in a well known as Horseshoe, is 20 miles south of where Repsol-Armstrong had already found oil in 2014 and 2015 in a project known as the Pikka Unit. The Pikka project is already in early development and it is anticipated that first production will begin in 2021, with a possible production of nearly 120,000 barrels of oil per day. Also in January 2017, ConocoPhillips announced a new oil discovery, known as Willow, located in the Greater Mooses Tooth Unit on ConocoPhillips' leases in the northeastern portion of NPRA. According to ConocoPhillips, Willow could produce up to 100,000 barrels of oil per day. Production at Willow is expected to begin in 2023. Conoco also recently began producing oil at a field known as CD-5, which is the first oil producing field within the NPRA.    Production at CD-5 reached 20,000 barrels of oil per day in 2017 and is expected to reach 30,000 barrels of oil per day. The Horseshoe, Willow and Smith Bay discoveries are all located in the Nanushuk formation or the related Torok formation.. Another potential source of crude oil in Alaska lies in the 19 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (\"ANWR\").    It is estimated that a 1.5-million-acre part of the coastal plain of ANWR known as the \"1002 area\" contains 11.8 billion barrels of potentially recoverable crude oil. A 40-year-old ban on energy development in the ANWR was removed when the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted in December 2017. The TCJA includes a provision that permits oil exploration and drilling in the 1002 area. In addition, the Trump administration announced in January 2018 that it would allow new offshore oil and gas drilling in nearly all United States coastal waters, including the Arctic Ocean.. Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska.. 27. Table of Contents. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production.. Construction of a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field.. The construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope could make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to market. Currently, natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field would lower reservoir pressure, although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas could be reinjected and other methods could be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure could accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust would cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders would not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field.. Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale would not be economical. In October 2012, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, BP and Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (\"TransCanada\") notified the Alaska Governor that they had agreed on a plan to combine what were once two competing natural gas pipeline projects destined for the continental U.S. into one project focused on export markets. This project contemplated building an 800-mile natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to a port on the southern coast of Alaska from which liquified natural gas (\"LNG\") would be exported to Asia. It was contemplated that the project would also include natural gas processing facilities and a natural-gas export terminal.. In January 2014, it was announced that the state of Alaska would pursue becoming an equity partner in the Alaska natural gas pipeline project and that ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips, TransCanada, Alaska Gasline Development Corporation (\"AGDC\"), and Alaska's commissioners of natural resources and revenue had signed a heads of agreement (\"HOA\") for the Alaska LNG Project. This established the commercial framework for the development of the natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to the south-central Alaska coast. The Nikiski area of the Kenai Peninsula was selected as the leading site for the LNG plant. In September 2014, an application was filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\"FERC\") to begin a pre-filing process to begin preparatory work for an environmental impact statement for the project. Earlier in 2014 an application was submitted to the U.S. Department of Energy for a license to export LNG. Pre-Front End Engineering and Design work, or pre-FEED, also commenced in the summer of 2014. In November 2015, AGDC purchased TransCanada's 25% interest in the project.. In August 2016, ExxonMobil, BP and ConocoPhilips indicated that they did not currently wish to make further investments in the Alaska LNG project. This decision followed a report, commissioned by ExxonMobil, BP and AGDC, by an energy consultancy firm stating the project's competitiveness \"ranks poorly\" under current market conditions. At the end of 2016, it was announced that AGDC had concluded agreements with ExxonMobil, BP and ConocoPhillips to take over the leadership position in the Alaska LNG project.. 28. Table of Contents. In November 2017, Alaska state officials announced that AGDC, which is currently the sole owner of the Alaska LNG project, had signed a joint development agreement with Sinopec, one of the world's largest oil and gas companies, China Investment Corp., the world's third-largest sovereign wealth fund, and the state-owned commercial bank, Bank of China, to pursue the project. This development followed the announcement in June 2017 that AGDC had signed an agreement with the Korea Gas Corp. establishing a cooperative framework for the development of Alaska's natural gas infrastructure. Construction of the project may begin in 2019 with a goal of transporting natural gas by 2024 or 2025.. <U+0095>   The effect of any changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes on Per Barrel Royalty and Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is unpredictable.. As noted (see \"THE ROYALTY INTEREST  -  Production Taxes\" in Item 1 above), Alaska's Production Tax Statutes affect the calculation of the Per Barrel Royalty. Among other changes to the Production Tax Statutes, the 2013 amendments added a stair-step per-barrel tax credit for oil production, provided that a producer's tax liability may not be reduced below the \"minimum tax\". Since going into effect on January 1, 2014, the 2013 amendments had the effect of reducing Production Taxes imposed on Royalty Production. Moreover, as a result of the low oil price environment that began in mid-2014, Royalty Production has been subject to the minimum tax under the Production Tax Statutes since the first quarter of 2015. The reduction in Production Taxes has in part offset the reduction in royalty payments that resulted from declining WTI prices.. Any changes to the Production Tax Statutes in the future may also impact the amount of Production Taxes and, in turn, the amount of royalty payments. Whether or when any such changes may occur and the effect any such changes may have on the Per Barrel Royalty is unpredictable.. The Production Tax Statutes can also have an impact on Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. For example, the 2007 amendments to the Production Tax Statutes (see \"THE ROYALTY INTEREST  -  Production Taxes\" in Item 1 above) may have accelerated the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology due to uncompetitive returns on investment in Alaska. The 2007 amendments, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminated or reduced many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 amendments to the Production Tax Statutes. Due in part to the 2007 amendments, BP Alaska's spending on production adding activity, adjusted for inflation, was flat to declining from 2008 through 2012. As noted under \"THE ROYALTY INTEREST  -  Production Taxes\" in Item 1 above, the 2013 amendments to the Production Tax Statutes were intended to encourage oil production and investment in Alaska's oil industry by eliminating the monthly \"progressivity\" tax rate implemented by 2006 and 2007 amendments and adding a stair-step per-barrel tax credit for oil production. Due to the low oil price environment that has prevailed for much of the time since the 2013 amendments went into effect, and since the Prudhoe Bay field is a mature field, the impact of the 2013 amendments in terms of encouraging oil production and investment with respect to the Prudhoe Bay field is uncertain. However, it has been suggested that the 2013 amendments to the Production Tax Statutes provided the impetus for the series of recent Alaska oil discoveries discussed above.. 29. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders.. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation to BP Alaska's actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska's actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance."
