[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our annual consolidated financial statements and the information set forth in Item 1, \"Business\" and Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may impact our business operations. Any of the risks described below could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In these circumstances, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business. If our institutions fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, they could face monetary liabilities or penalties, operational restrictions, or loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs from which we derive most of our revenue.. To participate in Title IV programs, an institution must be (i) legally authorized to operate in the state in which it is physically located, (ii) accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Department as a reliable indicator of educational quality and (iii) certified as an eligible institution by the Department. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulation by the Department, WSCUC and HLC (our institutions' accrediting agencies), and state education agencies. These regulatory requirements cover many aspects of our operations. They also restrict our ability to acquire or open new schools, add new educational programs, expand existing educational programs, change our corporate structure or ownership, and make other substantive changes to our business. Given that the Department, WSCUC, HLC and state education agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements, we cannot reliably predict how these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. If one of our institutions fails to comply with these regulatory requirements, the Department could impose sanctions on that institution, including monetary liabilities or penalties, operational restrictions, or loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs from which we derive most of our revenue. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  Potential sanctions for noncompliance with Title IV regulations\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" If our institutions were to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or were to have such participation substantially curtailed, enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Our institutions must periodically seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review or other action by the Department in connection with such recertification.. An institution must periodically seek recertification from the Department to continue to participate in Title IV programs and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review or other action by the Department in connection with such recertification. The University of the Rockies is certified until March 21, 2019 and is required to submit its reapplication for continued certification by December 31, 2018. Ashford University is provisionally certified by the Department until December 31, 2018 and is required to submit its reapplication for continued certification by September 30, 2018. The Department may review an institution's continued certification to participate in Title IV programs in the event of a change of control, and may take emergency action to suspend an institution's certification without advance notice if it determines the institution is violating Title IV requirements and immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the Department revokes or does not renew our institutions' certifications to participate in Title IV programs, our institutions' students would no longer be able to receive Title IV funds, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Ashford University is provisionally certified by the Department, which may make it more vulnerable to unfavorable Department action and place additional regulatory burdens on its operations.. Ashford University is currently provisionally certified by the Department until December 31, 2018 and is required to submit its reapplication for continued certification by September 30, 2018. The Department typically places an institution on provisional certification following a change in ownership resulting in a change of control, and may provisionally certify an institution for other reasons including, but not limited to, failure to comply with certain standards of administrative capability or financial responsibility. During the time when an institution is provisionally certified, it may be subject to adverse action with fewer due process rights than those afforded to other institutions. For example, Ashford's provisional status could subject it to additional sanctions if the Department were to find that Ashford engaged in substantial misrepresentation, including the revocation of its program participation agreement or the imposition of limitations on its participation in Title IV programs. In addition, an institution that is provisionally certified must apply for and receive approval from the Department for any substantial change including, but not limited to, the establishment of an additional location, an increase in the level of academic offerings or the addition of certain programs. Any adverse action by the Department or increased regulatory burdens as a result. 22. of Ashford's provisional status could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions' failure to maintain accreditation would denigrate the value of their educational programs and result in a loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. An institution must be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Department to participate in Title IV programs. Ashford University is accredited by WSCUC and University of the Rockies is accredited by HLC. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Accreditation  -  Evaluations and renewals of accreditation\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" Each of WSCUC and HLC is recognized by the Department as a reliable authority regarding the quality of education and training provided by the institutions it accredits. To remain accredited, our institutions must continuously meet accreditation standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. If either of our institutions fails to satisfy any of the standards of its accrediting agency, it could lose its accreditation. Loss of accreditation by either of our institutions would denigrate the value of its educational programs and would result in its loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If WSCUC or HLC loses recognition by the Department, our institutions could lose their ability to participate in Title IV programs.. In order to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the Department. Both WSCUC and HLC are recognized by the Department. If the Department ceased to recognize WSCUC or HLC for any reason, Ashford University or University of the Rockies, as applicable, would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs unless the Department continued to certify the eligibility of the institutions to participate in Title IV programs. The Department may continue to certify an institution for a period of no longer than 18 months after the date on which recognition of the accrediting body ceased. The inability of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or face other sanctions if they are not legally authorized to operate in the states in which they are physically located.. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must be legally authorized to offer its educational programs by the states in which it is physically located. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  State authorization\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" Ashford University's California facilities have been designated as its main campus for Title IV purposes, and Ashford also has a campus located in Iowa. Ashford has been authorized by the BPPE to operate in California and is registered as a postsecondary school in Iowa by ICSAC. University of the Rockies is located in Colorado and is authorized to operate by the Colorado Commission on Higher Education. To maintain these authorizations and registrations, Ashford University and University of the Rockies must comply with applicable requirements under the statutes and rules of the applicable state. Any loss of authorization to operate by our institutions and the resulting imposition of sanctions, including the loss of authorization to deliver educational programs and grant degrees and other credentials and the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with the regulations of various states where we are not physically located could preclude us from recruiting or enrolling students in those states or result in such students being ineligible to receive Title IV funds.. Department regulations provide that if an institution is offering postsecondary education through distance or correspondence education to students in a state in which it is not physically located or in which it is otherwise subject to state jurisdiction as determined by the state, the institution must meet any state requirements in order to legally offer postsecondary distance or correspondence education to students in that state. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but that offer educational services to students who reside in the state or that advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. We have determined that our activities in certain states constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization under the requirements of the applicable state education agency, and we have obtained state education agency approvals in certain states as determined necessary in connection with our marketing and recruiting activities. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  State Education Licensure and Regulation  -  Additional state regulation\" in Item 1, \"Business.\". Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to regularly evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. Although our institutions have a process for evaluating the compliance of their online educational programs with state requirements regarding distance and correspondence learning, state regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states, and are. 23. subject to change. Consequently, a state education agency could disagree with our conclusion that we are not required to obtain a license or authorization in the state or could determine that we are not in compliance with state requirements, and may subject us to sanctions including the loss of state licensure or authorization, imposition of restrictions on our activities in the state, or imposition of fines and penalties. In addition, any failure to comply with state regulatory requirements, or any enactment of new or modified state regulations, may result in our inability to enroll students or receive Title IV funds for students in those states, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Ashford University is approved by the BPPE to operate in California, which presents a greater reporting burden and may subject the university to increased regulatory or political scrutiny.. In connection with its transition to WSCUC accreditation, Ashford University designated its San Diego, California facilities as its main campus for Title IV purposes and submitted an Application for Approval to Operate an Accredited Institution to the BPPE on September 10, 2013. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an institution must be legally authorized to offer its educational programs by the states in which it is physically located. Ashford University was approved by the BPPE to operate in California until July 15, 2018. As a result, the university is subject to laws and regulations applicable to private, postsecondary educational institutions located in California, including reporting requirements related to graduation, employment and licensing data, certain changes of ownership and control, faculty and programs, and student refund policies. Ashford also remains subject to other state and federal student employment data reporting and disclosure requirements. Compliance with the additional reporting and disclosure obligations arising as a result of Ashford's operation as a BPPE-approved institution may result in material additional costs and increased regulatory or political scrutiny of the university.. Our institutions could lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or face other sanctions if they derive more than 90% of their respective cash revenues from these programs.. Under the Higher Education Act, a proprietary institution loses eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the institution derives more than 90% of its revenues from Title IV program funds for two consecutive fiscal years, as calculated in accordance with Department regulations. This rule is commonly referred to as the \"90/10 rule.\" Any institution that violates the 90/10 rule for two consecutive fiscal years becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. In addition, an institution whose rate exceeds 90% for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification and may be subject to other enforcement measures. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, Ashford University derived 80.8%, and University of the Rockies derived 86.1%, of their respective cash revenues from Title IV program funds. Ashford University and University of the Rockies continue to monitor their respective 90/10 rule calculations and their compliance with the 90/10 rule.. Revenue derived from government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, is not considered federal student aid for purposes of calculations under the 90/10 rule, and accordingly helps our institutions satisfy the 90/10 rule. If there were a reduction in funding of government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, or if our revenue derived from such funding were otherwise to decrease, it could be significantly more difficult for our institutions to satisfy the 90/10 rule. For additional information, see Note 18, \"Regulatory\" to our annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.. Changes in federal law that increase Title IV grant and loan limits may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from Title IV programs and make it more difficult for our institutions to satisfy the 90/10 rule. In addition, Congress could propose and adopt legislation that amends the 90/10 rule in ways that make it more difficult for our institutions to satisfy the 90/10 rule. Failure to satisfy the 90/10 rule could result in our institutions losing eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if too many students default on their loans.. For each federal fiscal year, the Department calculates a rate of student defaults over a three-year measuring period for each educational institution, which is known as a \"cohort default rate.\" An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in the Direct Loan Program and the Federal Pell Grant Program if for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years 30% or more of its students who became subject to a repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year defaulted on such obligation by the end of the following federal fiscal year. The most recent official three-year cohort default rates for Ashford University for the 2014, 2013 and 2012 federal fiscal years were 14.9%, 14.5% and 15.3%, respectively. The most recent official three-year cohort default rates for University of the Rockies for the 2014, 2013 and 2012 federal fiscal years were 5.5%, 3.8% and 4.3%, respectively. If too many of our institutions' students were to default on their loans resulting in an increase in our institutions' respective cohort default rates, our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 24. The failure of our institutions to demonstrate financial responsibility may result in a loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  Financial responsibility\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" One measure of financial responsibility is an institution's composite score, a number between negative 1.0 and positive 3.0. An institution's composite score must be at least 1.5 for the institution to be deemed financially responsible without the need for further Department oversight. We expect the consolidated composite score to be 2.5 for the year ended December 31, 2017; however, the consolidated calculation is subject to determination by the Department once it receives and reviews our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2017, the composite score at each of our institutions is higher than the consolidated score. If our institutions are found not to have satisfied the Department's financial responsibility requirements, they could be limited in their access to or lose Title IV program funding, or they may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department and possibly accept other conditions to their participation in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain adequate systems and processes to detect and prevent fraudulent activity in student enrollment and financial aid, our business could be adversely impacted.. We are susceptible to an increased risk of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to student enrollment and student financial aid programs. Our systems and processes may not always be adequate in the face of increasingly sophisticated and ever-changing fraud schemes. The potential for outside parties to perpetrate fraud in connection with the award and disbursement of Title IV program funds, including as a result of identity theft, may be heightened because we are an online education provider. We must maintain systems and processes to successfully identify and prevent fraudulent applications for enrollment and financial aid.. The Department's regulations require institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the OIG credible information indicating that any applicant, employee, third-party servicer or agent of the institution that acts in a capacity that involves administration of Title IV programs has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs. If the systems and processes that we have established to detect and prevent fraud are inadequate, the Department may find that we do not satisfy its \"administrative capability\" requirements. In addition, our institutions' ability to participate in Title IV programs is conditioned on their maintaining accreditation by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Department. Under the Higher Education Act, accrediting agencies that evaluate institutions offering distance learning programs, as our institutions do, must require such institutions to have processes by which they establish that a student who registers for a distance education program is the same student who participates in and receives credit for the program. Failure to adequately detect fraudulent activity related to student enrollment and financial aid could cause our institutions to fail to meet their accrediting agencies' standards and result in the loss of accreditation at the discretion of such accrediting agencies. Any failure to satisfy the Department's administrative capability requirements or any loss of accreditation as a result of a failure to detect and prevent fraudulent activity could result in limits on or loss of our institutions' eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions could lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or face other sanctions if they pay incentive compensation to persons or entities involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid awarding activities.. The Higher Education Act prohibits an institution from providing any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities involved in student recruiting or admissions activities or making decisions about the award of student financial assistance. The criteria for complying with the Department's rules prohibiting incentive compensation are not clear in all circumstances, and the Department will not review or approve compensation plans prior to their implementation.. If it were determined that one of our institutions violated the incentive compensation rule, the institution could be subject to monetary liabilities or administrative action to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 25. Our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or face other sanctions if the Department or other federal agencies determine they have misrepresented the nature of educational programs, financial charges or graduate employability.. The Higher Education Act prohibits an institution participating in Title IV programs from engaging in substantial misrepresentation regarding the nature of its educational programs, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates. Given the Department's broad definition of \"substantial misrepresentation,\" it is possible that despite our training efforts and compliance programs, our institutions' employees or service providers may make statements that could be construed as substantial misrepresentations. In addition to the Department's prohibition on substantial misrepresentation, for-profit educational institutions are subject to the general deceptive practices jurisdiction of the FTC and the CFPB. The FSA is currently investigating representations made by Ashford University to potential and enrolled students, and has asked us and Ashford to assist in its assessment of Ashford's compliance with the prohibition on substantial misrepresentations. We, together with Ashford, intend to provide the FSA with our full cooperation with a view toward demonstrating the compliant nature of our practices. In addition, the Department is currently conducting an off-site program review to assess Ashford's administration of the Title IV programs in which it participates. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Compliance reviews, audits and reports  -  Department of Education Open Program Review of Ashford University\" in Item 1, \"Business.\". If the Department determines that one of our institutions has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, the Department may (i) attempt to revoke the institution's program participation agreement if the institution is provisionally certified, (ii) impose limitations on the institution's participation in Title IV programs if the institution is provisionally certified, (iii) deny applications from the institution for approval of new programs or locations or other matters or (iv) initiate proceedings to fine the institution or limit, suspend or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Because Ashford University is provisionally certified, it could be subject to the actions set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above in addition to any other actions taken by the Department. The imposition of these sanctions, including the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or face other sanctions if they fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program.. An institution participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the institution determines that the student has withdrawn. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  Return of Title IV funds for students who withdraw\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" Failure to make timely returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in the institution's annual financial aid compliance audit in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years can result in an institution having to post a letter of credit equal to 25% of the amount of unearned Title IV funds the institution was required to return for its most recently completed fiscal year. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and returned in a timely manner, an institution may also be subject to monetary liabilities or an action to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate its participation in Title IV programs. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, our institutions did not exceed the 5% threshold for late refunds sampled.. Our institutions may be required to modify or eliminate certain programs, or certain programs may lose Title IV eligibility, if they do not lead to gainful employment in a recognized occupation, as determined by the Department.. In October 2014, the Department published gainful employment regulations impacting programs required to prepare graduates for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Almost all academic programs offered by Title IV-participating private sector institutions of higher education must prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The gainful employment regulations became effective July 1, 2015, with certain institutional disclosure requirements which became effective January 1, 2017. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  Gainful employment\" in Item 1, \"Business.\". On October 20, 2016, we received draft debt-to-earnings rates and certain underlying data from the Department for the first gainful employment measurement year, and on January 8, 2017 we received our institutions' final debt-to-earnings rates for the first gainful employment measurement year. Based on the final rates, none of our programs were determined to fail, two of our current programs were determined to be in the zone and one additional program that was discontinued prior to the issuance of the gainful employment regulations was determined to be in the zone. These results are significant given the framework of the gainful employment regulations, as a program would be disqualified from participation in Title IV programs only if it were to fail for two out of three consecutive years, or either fail or be in the zone for three out of four consecutive years. The regulations contemplate a transition period in the first several years to afford institutions the opportunity to make changes to their programs and retain Title IV eligibility. We continue to review the information provided by the Department to understand. 26. the potential impact of the gainful employment regulations on our programs, and we will continue to evaluate options related to new programs or adjustments to current programs that could help mitigate the potential adverse consequences of the regulations.. Under the final gainful employment regulations, the continuing eligibility of certain of our educational programs for Title IV program funding is at risk due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control including, without limitation, changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level relevant for calculating discretionary income, and changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student loans. The factors noted above could reduce our ability to confidently offer or continue certain types of programs for which there is a market demand. Management is considering whether certain programs will be able to avoid falling into the fail or zone categories in the future through adjustments to program price or the duration of programs, if appropriate and consistent with programmatic standards and as permitted by applicable regulations. There can be no assurance that these adjustments will result in compliance with the gainful employment regulations. For programs where such adjustments are not feasible or do not result in compliance with the gainful employment regulations, we may discontinue such programs. The adjustment or discontinuation of any of our programs, or the loss of Title IV eligibility for certain of our programs if not adjusted or discontinued, could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The gainful employment regulations also provide that if a program fails to satisfy at least one of the two tests set forth in the regulations relating to minimum student debt service-to-earnings ratios, the institution will be required to provide a warning notice to prospective and enrolled students advising them that the program may lose Title IV eligibility based on final student debt service-to-earnings ratios for the next award year. If we are required to provide a warning notice with respect to any of our programs, it could have a material adverse effect on enrollment in those programs even before any determination has been made regarding eligibility of the program to participate in Title IV programs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The failure of our institutions to demonstrate compliance with state laws may result in liability to, or remedial action against, our institutions, including recoupment by the Department of discharged student loan funds under the \"defense to repayment\" provisions of the Direct Loan Program regulations.. The current defense to repayment provisions of the Direct Loan Program regulations, allow a student to assert as a defense against repayment of federal direct loans any commission of fraud or other violation of applicable state law by the school related to such loans or the educational services for which the loans were provided. The failure of our institutions to comply with state laws may result in liability to, or remedial action against, our institutions, including recoupment by the Department of discharged student loan funds under the \"defense to repayment\" provisions. The assertion of any claims by our institutions' students under the defense to repayment provisions and any resulting remedial action, or any recoupment by the Department of discharged student loan funds pursuant to the defense to repayment provisions, could damage our reputation in the industry and have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The Department's new regulations regarding borrower defense to repayment may expand the circumstances in which students may assert a defense to repayment against an institution and may also provide that certain conditions or events could trigger a requirement that an institution post a letter of credit or other security that could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate.. The current standard for determining whether a borrower has a defense to repayment of a student loan allows borrowers to assert a defense to repayment if a cause of action would have arisen under applicable state law. On June 14, 2017, the Department announced a postponement of proposed changes to defense to repayment regulations and its intention to resubmit the regulations through the negotiated rulemaking process. The Department announced an additional postponement on October 24, 2017. On February 14, 2018, the Department announced they are postponing the effective date of this rule until July 1, 2019 so they can complete the negotiated rulemaking process and develop the new regulations. While rulemaking occurs, the Department will continue to process claims under the current borrower defense rules.. Under any new regulations regarding borrower defense to repayment, our institutions could face claims by students based on expanded circumstances in which students may assert a defense to repayment of their student loans, and the Department may be entitled to seek recoupment of student loans discharged pursuant to the regulations. The FSA is currently investigating representations made by Ashford University to potential and enrolled students, and has asked the Company and Ashford to assist in its assessment of Ashford's compliance with the prohibition on substantial misrepresentations. In addition, our institutions are from time to time subject to certain actions or investigations by various state, federal or accrediting agencies, and as a public company we could be subject to the additional triggering events outlined by the Department in new regulations;. 27. therefore, we may be required to post a letter of credit or provide some other form of security to the Department, which could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Any assertion by our institutions' students of defenses to repayment, including any resulting liability to, or remedial action against, our institutions, and any significant restrictions imposed on us or our ability to operate resulting from a requirement to post a letter of credit or other security, could damage our reputation in the industry and have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions cannot offer new programs, expand their physical operations into certain states or acquire additional schools if such actions are not approved in a timely fashion by the applicable regulatory agencies, and Title IV funds disbursed to students enrolled in any such programs, states or acquired schools may have to be repaid if prior approval is not obtained.. Our operating plans may include the offering of new educational programs by our institutions, some of which may require regulatory approval. In addition, we or our institutions may increase physical operations in additional states or seek to acquire additional schools. Because Ashford University is provisionally certified, it must apply for and receive approval from the Department for any substantial change, including but not limited to the establishment of an additional location, an increase in the level of academic offerings or the addition of certain programs. If we or our institutions are unable to obtain the necessary approvals for such new programs, operations or acquisitions or, in the case of Ashford University, a substantial change, from the Department, WSCUC, HLC or any applicable state education agency or other accrediting agency, or if we or our institutions are unable to obtain such approvals in a timely manner, the ability to consummate such actions and provide Title IV funds to any affected students would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we or our institutions were to determine erroneously that any such action did not require approval or that all required approvals have been obtained, our institutions could be liable for repayment of the Title IV program funds provided to students in the affected program or at the affected location, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. If regulators do not approve, or if they delay their approval of, transactions involving a change of control of our company, our ability to participate in Title IV programs may be impaired.. In November 2017, Warburg Pincus decreased its ownership of our stock to 0%. As a result, we must seek approval of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control under the standards of the Department, WSCUC, HLC, and/or applicable state education agencies. For additional information, see \"Regulation  -  Department Regulation of Title IV Programs  -  Change in ownership resulting in a change of control\" in Item 1, \"Business.\" A failure by us or one of our institutions to reestablish its Department certification, accreditation or state authorization, as applicable, following a change of control could result in a suspension or loss of operating authority or the ability to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Governmental proceedings or other claims and lawsuits asserting regulatory noncompliance could result in monetary liabilities or penalties, injunctions or loss of Title IV funding for students at our institutions.. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we and our institutions are subject to compliance reviews, claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government under the federal False Claims Act. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to defend successfully against such lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. In addition, claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation or adversely affect our stock price, even if such claims and lawsuits are eventually determined to be without merit. For additional information, see Note 20, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" to our annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.. Additional regulations or regulatory scrutiny resulting from action by the Department could result in increased compliance costs, fines, sanctions or lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. On December 16, 2016, the Department released final regulations to clarify state authorization requirements for postsecondary institutions offering distance education that participate in federal student loan programs, as required by the Higher Education Act. Among other things, the final regulations (i) require institutions offering distance education to be authorized by each state in which they enroll students, if such authorization is required by the state, (ii) require institutions to document the state process for resolving student complaints regarding distance education programs, (iii) require public and. 28. individualized disclosures to enrolled and prospective students in distance education programs, including disclosures regarding adverse actions taken against the institution, the institution's refund policies and whether each of the institution's programs meet applicable state licensure or certification requirements, and (iv) require institutions to explain to students the consequences of moving to a state where the school is not authorized, which could include loss of eligibility for federal student aid. The final regulations recognize authorization through participation in a state authorization reciprocity agreement, as long as the agreement does not prevent a state from enforcing its own consumer laws. The final regulations are scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2018.. We cannot predict the scope and content of the regulations that may emerge from these or other rulemaking activities that the Department initiates. The Company's compliance with these regulations or any additional or modified regulations, could result in direct and indirect costs related to compliance, increased scrutiny, fines, liabilities, sanctions or lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Any action by Congress to revise the laws governing Title IV programs or to reduce funding for these programs could negatively impact our business.. Congress must periodically reauthorize the Higher Education Act and annually determine the funding level for each Title IV program through the budget and appropriations process. In 2008, the Higher Education Act was reauthorized through September 2014,  and on December 13, 2017, the House of Representatives' Committee on Education and the Workforce passed H.R. 4508, the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform Act (\"PROSPER Act\"). No date has been set for consideration by the full House on the legislation, nor has a companion Higher Education Act reauthorization bill been introduced in the U.S. Senate. The Higher Education Act's programs will continue year-to-year without explicit reauthorization as long as Congress appropriates funds for the programs. Congress may propose and pass revisions to the Higher Education Act between reauthorizations by using other legislative vehicles such as budget bills and appropriations bills, which could impact funding for student financial aid programs.. We cannot predict what legislation, if any, will arise out of the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act or other Congressional deliberations, or what impact any such legislation might have on the for-profit education sector and our business in particular. However, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the eligibility of our institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs, or that requires us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our profit margin, would have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other postsecondary institutions.. In recent years, Congressional, federal, state and accrediting agency investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several postsecondary educational institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with Department regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. Although the media, regulatory and legislative focus has been primarily on the allegations made against these specific companies, broader allegations against the postsecondary sector may negatively impact public perceptions of all postsecondary educational institutions. Such allegations could result in increased scrutiny and regulation of all postsecondary institutions, including Ashford University and University of the Rockies, by the Department, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures or other governmental authorities.. As a result of changes that have been made, or that may be required by the accreditors of our institutions, to our operational relationships with our institutions and to their operations and business models, our historical financial and business results may not necessarily be representative of future results.. In connection with the transition of Ashford University to WSCUC accreditation and our efforts to structure our operations to meet evolving regulatory expectations, our institutions have made operational changes and launched various new business initiatives, and additional changes may be required. These changes and initiatives included hiring new leadership, implementing smaller class sizes, requiring minimum age-levels for students, implementing the Ashford Promise (an initiative that allows students a full refund for all tuition and fees through the third week of a student's first class), hiring additional full-time faculty and implementing new program review models. Many of these changes and initiatives result in higher expense to the organization, primarily in the areas of instructional costs and services. In addition, we have made changes in our organizational structure and operational relationships with our academic institutions to ensure their academic independence and satisfaction of accreditation-related requirements. Some of these changes and initiatives have contributed to declines in new student enrollments. Accordingly, our historical results and trends, including enrollments, admissions advisory and marketing expenses, and instructional costs and services, may not be indicative of our future results, and there can be no assurance that changes to our operational relationship with our institutions or other changes we have made, or may make in the future, will not. 29. have an adverse impact on regulatory compliance, satisfaction of accreditation-related standards, or our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and to recruit and retain, students; adverse publicity may negatively impact demand for our institutions' programs.. Building awareness among potential students of Ashford University and University of the Rockies and the programs they offer is critical to their ability to attract prospective students. It is also critical to our success that these prospective students are converted to enrolled students in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled students remain active in our institutions' programs. Some of the factors that could prevent the successful recruiting and retention of students in our institutions' programs include:. • the emergence of more and better competitors;. • factors related to our marketing efforts, including the costs of online advertising and broad-based branding campaigns;. • performance problems with our online systems;. • our institutions' failure to maintain accreditation, state licensure and eligibility for Title IV programs;. • student dissatisfaction with our institutions' services and programs;. • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our institutions' programs or programs provided by private sector postsecondary education companies generally;. • adverse publicity regarding us, or online or private sector postsecondary education generally;. • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; and. • a decline in the acceptance of online education or education provided by private sector postsecondary education companies.. We face litigation and legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We and our institutions are subject to lawsuits, investigations and claims covering a wide range of matters. We are the subject of complaints alleging violations of various laws including, but not limited to, federal securities laws (including a securities class action), the federal False Claims Act and state employment laws, as well as investigations by the SEC, the U.S. Department of Justice (the \"DOJ\"), and state Attorneys General. Derivative shareholder complaints have also been asserted on our behalf against certain of our current and former officers and directors alleging breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. These and other legal proceedings could cause us to incur significant defense costs, are disruptive to our normal business operations and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. An adverse outcome of any legal proceeding could result in monetary losses or restrictions on our business, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. For additional information regarding current material legal proceedings involving us and our institutions, including investigations by the SEC, the DOJ and state Attorneys General, see Note 20, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" to our annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.. As a percentage of revenues, our bad debt expense is high relative to our competitors. If we are unable to remedy the underlying causes, our bad debt expense could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. As a percentage of revenues, our bad debt expense is high relative to our competitors and has increased from 6.2% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 to 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2017. We believe our bad debt expense is primarily driven by operational policies, timing of financial aid processing and collection management. If we are unable to make appropriate changes, or if our changes are not as effective as anticipated, our bad debt expense could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 30. If deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, we could be required to restate our financial results, which could adversely affect our stock price and result in our inability to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. If significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could adversely affect our stock price and result in our inability to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. A failure of our information systems to properly store, process and report relevant data may reduce our management's effectiveness, interfere with our regulatory compliance and increase our operating expenses.. We are heavily dependent on the integrity of our data management systems. If these systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. Any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our institutions rely on a third-party vendor to provide the online learning platform for students and related support and hosting.. We have a license agreement with Instructure pursuant to which we license an online Canvas learning management system and platform for students at our institutions. Our institutions currently rely on Instructure for administrative support and hosting of the applicable systems. If Instructure ceases to operate or is unwilling or unable to work with our institutions, or if our agreement with Instructure is otherwise terminated, the online learning platform for students at our institutions and related administrative support and hosting could be interrupted or become unavailable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to laws and regulations as a result of our collection and use of personal information, and any violations of such laws or regulations, or any breach, theft or loss of such information, could adversely affect our business.. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our applicants, students, faculty and staff. We also collect and maintain personal information about our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Our services can be accessed globally through the Internet. Therefore, we may be subject to the application of national privacy laws in countries outside the United States from which applicants and students access our services. Such privacy laws could impose conditions that limit the way we market and provide our services.. Our computer networks and the networks of certain of our vendors that hold and manage confidential information on our behalf may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, employee theft or misuse, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. Confidential information may also inadvertently become available to third parties when we integrate systems or migrate data to our servers following an acquisition of a school or in connection with periodic hardware or software upgrades. Due to the sensitive nature of the personal information stored on our servers, our networks may be targeted by hackers seeking to access this data. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate sensitive information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of privacy for current or prospective students or employees.. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and could restrict our use of personal information, and a violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us or lawsuits brought against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information held by us or our vendors regarding our institutions' students and their families or our employees, or a violation of laws or regulations relating to the same, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, result in lawsuits and result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance.. 31. We may experience unforeseen tax consequences.. On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into law H.R.1, formerly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Legislation\"). The Tax Legislation significantly revised the U.S. tax code that will affect our year ending December 31, 2018, including, but not limited to, lowering the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; bonus depreciation that will allow for full expensing of qualified property; limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation and other deductions; and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of taxable income with an indefinite carryforward period.. The enactment of the Tax Legislation resulted in a one-time re-measurement of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities from 35% to the lower enacted corporate tax rate of 21%. The provisional remeasurement of our deferred tax balance was primarily offset by a corresponding change in the valuation allowance. We are still analyzing the impact the Tax Legislation will have on the measurement of the deferred taxes or whether new deferred taxes exist. Where we have not yet been able to make reasonable estimates of the impact of certain elements, we have not recorded any amounts related to those elements and have continued to account for them in accordance with ASC 740 on the basis of the tax laws in effect immediately prior to the enactment of the Tax Legislation.. Changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a material effect on our results and disclosures, as well as our processes and related controls. For example, during May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), for which certain elements may impact our current disclosures or our future accounting for revenue. For additional information, see Note 2, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements\" to our annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our technology infrastructure could damage the reputation of our institutions and negatively impact our business.. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure (including the software and related hosting and maintenance services for our online learning platform, student information system, and lead management system) is critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of systems to us or our institutions' students and negatively impact our business and reputation. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other security problems. Although we continually monitor the security of our technology infrastructure and take proactive measures to prevent potential threats, these efforts may not protect our computer networks against all threats of security breaches, which could damage the reputation of our institutions and negatively impact our business and prospects.. Our expenses may cause us to incur additional operating losses if we do not realize our expected revenues.. Our spending is based in significant part on our estimates of future revenue and is largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner if our revenue falls short of our expectations. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, we anticipate increasing operating expenses to expand program offerings and marketing initiatives. Any such increase could cause material losses to the extent we do not generate additional revenues sufficient to cover those expenses.. Intense competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of recruiting students and put downward pressure on our tuition rates.. Postsecondary education is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two- and four-year colleges as well as with other postsecondary schools. Traditional colleges and universities may offer programs similar to those offered by our institutions at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit postsecondary institutions. In addition, our institutions face continued scrutiny from their accreditors, and some of our competitors, including traditional colleges and universities, have substantially greater brand recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new. 32. entrants to the online education market, including traditional colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs.. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business. We may be required to reduce our tuition or increase marketing spending in order to attract or retain students or to pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage or offer scholarships to their employees to attend and from which online universities they will hire prospective employees.. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business.. Our success depends largely on the skills, efforts and motivations of our executive officers, who generally have significant experience with our company and within the education industry. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and may subsequently compete against us. We do not carry life insurance on our key personnel as part of our benefits. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our failure to attract, replace and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. In addition, because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our hiring of qualified executives or other personnel may cause us or such persons to be subject to lawsuits alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, improper solicitation of employees or other claims.. If we are unable to hire new employees or to continue to develop existing employees responsible for student recruitment, the effectiveness of our new enrollment efforts would be adversely affected.. We intend to (i) hire, develop and train additional employees responsible for new enrollment and (ii) retain and continue to develop and train our existing new enrollment personnel. Our ability to develop and maintain a strong new enrollment function may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our enrollment service advisors, our ability to effectively train our enrollment service advisors, the length of time it takes new enrollment service advisors to become productive, regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating enrollment service advisors and the competition involved in hiring and retaining enrollment service advisors. If we are unable to hire new employees or retain and develop current employees responsible for new enrollment, it could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Enrollment and revenues could decrease if government tuition assistance offered to military personnel is reduced, suspended or eliminated, if scholarships which we offer to military personnel are reduced or eliminated, or if our relationships with military bases deteriorate.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 25.8% of our institutions' students were affiliated with the military, some of whom are eligible to receive government tuition assistance that may be used to pursue postsecondary degrees. In some cases we also provide scholarships to students who are affiliated with the military. If government tuition assistance offered to military personnel is suspended or otherwise reduced or eliminated, enrollment by military personnel, including veterans, may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, if in response to future reductions or suspensions in military tuition assistance we determine to reinstitute our Military Tuition Assistance Grant or a similar program, or if we increase our scholarships to students who are affiliated with the military, our per student revenue from military personnel would decline.. We maintain relationships with military bases and provide scholarships to students who are affiliated with the military. If our relationship with any military base deteriorates or we reduce or eliminate these scholarships, enrollment by military personnel, including veterans, may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. A decline in the overall growth of enrollment in postsecondary institutions, or in the number of students seeking degrees online or in our core disciplines, could cause us to experience a further decline in enrollment at our institutions.. Enrollment at our institutions declined to 40,730 at December 31, 2017 as compared to 45,087 at December 31, 2016, and our revenues have declined in recent periods and may continue to decline in the future. In addition, if job growth in the fields related to our institutions' core disciplines is weaker than expected, fewer students may seek the types of degrees that our institutions offer. In order to return to growth in our revenues and increase enrollment at our institutions, our institutions will need to attract and retain a larger percentage of students in existing markets and expand their markets by creating new academic programs. Any further decline in enrollment at our institutions as a result of our inability to attract and retain students in. 33. existing markets or expand our markets by creating new academic programs in areas where there is market demand could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our success depends in part on our institutions' ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and to develop new programs and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner.. The updates and expansions of existing programs and the development of new programs and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or prospective employers of our institutions' graduates. If we do not adequately respond to changes in market requirements by updating and expanding our existing programs or developing new programs, our business will be adversely affected. Even if our institutions are able to develop acceptable new programs, they may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. To offer a new academic program, our institutions may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our operations. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be approved by the Department.. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires investments in management, faculty and capital expenditures, additional marketing expenses and reallocation of other resources. We and our institutions may have limited experience with programs in new disciplines and may need to modify existing systems and strategies or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If our institutions are unable to increase enrollment in new programs, offer new programs in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our failure to keep pace with changing market needs could harm our institutions' ability to attract students.. Our success depends to a large extent on the willingness of employers to hire, promote or increase the pay of our institutions' graduates. Increasingly, employers demand that their new employees possess appropriate technical and analytical skills and also appropriate interpersonal skills, such as communication and teamwork. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important that our institutions' educational programs continually evolve in response to those economic and technological changes.. The expansion of existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or by prospective employers of our institutions' graduates. Even if our institutions develop acceptable new programs, they may not be able to begin offering those new programs in a timely fashion or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, the rates at which our institutions' graduates obtain jobs in their fields of study could suffer, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our business could be adversely affected.. We may be unable to sufficiently protect our proprietary rights and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of the intellectual property of third parties.. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, trade secrets, domain names and agreements with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary rights. We have trademark and service mark registrations and pending applications for additional registrations in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions. We also own the domain name rights for our institutions, as well as other words and phrases important to our business. In addition, we have applied for domestic and international patents for certain technology developed by us. We also have registered copyrights for exemplary business course materials. Nonetheless, as new challenges arise in protecting these proprietary rights online, we cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our technology, curricula and online resource material, among others. Our management's attention may be diverted by these attempts, and we may need to expend funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation.. We may also encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights to the content of a course. Third parties may raise claims against us alleging an infringement or violation of their intellectual property. Some third-party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid all alleged violations of such intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether. 34. such claim has merit. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to pay monetary damages, which may be significant, or our institutions may be required to alter the content of their classes to be non-infringing.. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions.. In some instances, our institutions' faculty members or students may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and could impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages.. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business.. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or in foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect enrollments.. We may require additional financing in the future and if such financing is not available on terms acceptable to us, it could adversely affect our ability to grow.. We believe that cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our current operating plans for the foreseeable future. However, we may need additional financing in order to finance our plans, particularly if we pursue any acquisitions. The amount, timing and terms of such additional financing will vary principally depending on the timing and size of new program offerings, the timing and size of acquisitions we may seek to consummate and the amount of cash flows from our operations. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future, such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all and, consequently, we may not be able to fully implement our plans.. A protracted economic slowdown and rising unemployment could lead to lower enrollment and impact our students' ability to repay their loans.. We believe that many students pursue postsecondary education to be more competitive in the job market. However, a protracted economic slowdown could increase unemployment and diminish job prospects generally. Diminished job prospects and heightened financial worries could affect the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for postsecondary education and to pursue postsecondary education in general. As a result, enrollments could suffer.. In addition, many of our institutions' students borrow Title IV loans to pay for tuition, fees and other expenses. A protracted economic slowdown could negatively impact their ability to repay those loans which would negatively impact our institutions' cohort default rates. Our institutions' students also are frequently able to borrow Title IV loans in excess of their tuition. The excess is received by such students as a stipend. However, if a student withdraws, we must return any unearned Title IV funds, including stipends. A protracted economic slowdown could negatively impact such students' ability to repay those stipends. As a result, the amount of Title IV funds we would have to return without reimbursement from students could increase, and our results of operations could suffer.. If we fail to effectively identify, pursue and consummate acquisitions, either in the U.S. or outside of the U.S., our ability to grow could be impacted and our profitability may be adversely affected.. Acquisitions are one component of our overall long-term growth strategy. From time to time, we engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible domestic and international acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, complete acquisitions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions or businesses. There may be particular difficulties and complexities (regulatory or otherwise) associated with our expansion into international markets, and our strategies may not succeed beyond our current markets. If we are unable to effectively address these challenges, our ability to execute this component of our long-term strategy will be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow and our profitability.. The acquisition, integration and growth of acquired businesses may present challenges that could harm our business.. 35. The successful integration and profitable operation of an acquired institution or business, including the realization of anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, can present challenges, and the failure to overcome these challenges can have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Some of these challenges include:. • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;. • distraction of management's attention from normal business operations during the integration process;. • the inability to attract and/or retain key management personnel to operate the acquired entity;. • the inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory or other approvals necessary to operate the business;. • the inability to correctly estimate the size of a target market or accurately assess market dynamics;. • expenses associated with the integration efforts; and. • unidentified issues not discovered in the due diligence process, including legal contingencies.. An acquisition related to an institution or other educational business often requires one or multiple regulatory approvals. If we are unable to obtain such approvals, or we obtain them on unfavorable terms, our ability to consummate a transaction may be impaired or we may be unable to operate the acquired entity in a manner that is favorable to us. If we fail to properly evaluate an acquisition, we may be required to incur costs in excess of what we anticipated, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisition.. We may finance a future acquisition with existing funds or funds raised through debt or equity financing. If we use existing funds, we will lower the amount of funds we currently have. If we arrange for alternative financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. In addition, equity financing could dilute the holdings of our stockholders, which may affect our stock price.. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our institutions' ability to attract and retain students.. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. However, if Congress increases interest rates on Title IV loans, or if private loan interest rates rise, our institutions' students would have to pay higher interest rates on their loans. Any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to existing and prospective students. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to students' repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our institutions' eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs, which could have a material adverse effect on enrollments and our revenues, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations governing our activities could result in financial penalties and other costs.. We use hazardous materials at our ground campuses and generate small quantities of waste, such as used oil, antifreeze, paint, car batteries and laboratory materials. Additionally, we have identified minor environmental issues at the property near the Clinton Campus. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and the clean-up of contamination at our facilities or off-site locations to which we send or have sent waste for disposal. If we do not maintain compliance with any of these environmental laws and regulations, or we are responsible for a spill or release of hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages and fines or penalties.. Risk Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly for a variety of different reasons, including, without limitation:. • developments regarding the accreditation or state licensing of our academic institutions, particularly Ashford University;. 36. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • public reaction to our press releases, corporate communications and SEC filings;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry;. • seasonal variations in our student enrollment;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our industry or business;. • negative publicity, including government hearings and other public lawmaker or regulator criticism, regarding our industry or business;. • changes in enrollment;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors;. • sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and. • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events.. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Changes may occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company.. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. If our stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. At December 31, 2017, 27.2 million shares of our common stock were outstanding.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there were 2.9 million shares of our common stock underlying outstanding stock options and 1.4 million shares of our common stock underlying outstanding stock awards, including restricted stock units and performance stock units. All shares subject to outstanding stock options are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of the applicable stock option agreement and Rule 144 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Under Rule 144, shares held by non-affiliates for more than six months may generally be sold without restriction, other than a current public information requirement, and may be sold freely without any restrictions after one year. Shares held by affiliates may also be sold under Rule 144 after one year, subject to applicable restrictions, including volume and manner of sale limitations.. If securities or industry analysts change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely or cease to cover our company, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business or industry. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We do not expect to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and we intend to use our cash position to grow our business. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a positive return on your investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates.. Your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. 37. Subject to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), our board of directors has the authority, without any action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of capital stock. At December 31, 2017, there were 300.0 million shares of common stock authorized for issuance under our certificate of incorporation, 27.2 million shares of which were outstanding. At December 31, 2017, there were 20.0 million shares of preferred stock authorized for issuance under our certificate of incorporation, no shares of which were outstanding. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce the influence of our current stockholders over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in the rights of our current stockholders being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. Our common stock has relatively low trading volume, compared to many other public companies. Our common stock trades on the NYSE. Our average daily trading volume over these various mediums is relatively low, particularly when compared to many larger public companies. This low trading volume can cause our common stock price to fluctuate significantly, and can make it difficult for investors to buy or sell our common stock quickly and efficiently, compared to companies with a larger publicly traded float and higher average daily trading volumes.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;. • provide for a classified board of directors (three classes);. • provide that stockholders may only remove directors for cause;. • provide that any vacancy on our board of directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. • provide that a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors or by our chief executive officer;. • provide that action by written consent of the stockholders may be taken only if the board of directors first approves such action, except that if Warburg Pincus holds at least 50% of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis, whenever the vote of stockholders is required at a meeting for any corporate action, the meeting and vote of stockholders may be dispensed with, and the action may be taken without such meeting and vote, if a written consent is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at the meeting of stockholders; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, we will hold an annual meeting of stockholders in accordance with NYSE rules for so long as our shares are listed on the NYSE, and as otherwise required by the bylaws;. • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder."
