[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The concentration of the Bank’s loan portfolio in loans secured by commercial, multi-family and residential real estate properties located on Long Island and the New York City boroughs could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations if general economic conditions or real estate values in this area decline.. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank’s loan portfolio consists primarily of real estate loans secured by commercial, multi-family and residential real estate properties located in Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island, and in the New York City boroughs. The local economic conditions on Long Island and in New York City have a significant impact on the volume of loan originations and the quality of loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of collateral securing these loans. A considerable decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Bank’s control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on the Bank’s earnings.. If bank regulators impose limitations on the Bank’s commercial real estate lending activities, earnings could be adversely affected.. In 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies (collectively, the “Agencies”) issued joint guidance entitled “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices” (the “CRE Guidance”). Although the CRE Guidance did not establish specific lending limits, it provides that a bank’s commercial real estate lending exposure may receive increased supervisory scrutiny where total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, including loans secured by apartment buildings, investor commercial real estate and construction and land loans, represent 300% or more of an institution’s total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months. The Bank’s level of non-owner occupied commercial real estate equaled 345% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017. Including owner-occupied commercial real estate, the ratio of commercial real estate loans to total risk-based capital ratio would be 458% at December 31, 2017.. In December 2015, the Agencies released a new statement on prudent risk management for commercial real estate lending (the “2015 Statement”). In the 2015 Statement, the Agencies express concerns about easing commercial real estate underwriting standards, direct financial institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise risk management practices to identify, measure and monitor lending risks, and indicate that the Agencies will continue “to pay special attention” to commercial real estate lending activities and concentrations going forward. If the NYSDFS or FRB were to impose restrictions on the amount of commercial real estate loans the Bank can hold in its portfolio, or require higher capital ratios as a result of the level of commercial real estate loans held, the Bank’s earnings would be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates could affect the Bank’s profitability.. The Bank’s ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates.. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank’s assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, the Bank’s cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio as its primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term.. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of the Bank’s loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates.. Page -8-. Table of Contents. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of the securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates.  As of December 31, 2017, the securities portfolio totaled $976.1 million.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits effective July 21, 2011, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts.  Depending on competitive responses, this change to existing law could increase the Bank’s interest expense.. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area may limit its growth and profitability.. The Bank’s primary market area is located in Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island and the New York City boroughs. Competition in the banking and financial services industry remains intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of the Bank’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition, competitors may offer deposits at higher rates and loans with lower fixed rates, more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer.. Acquisitions involve integrations and other risks.. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges including: the Bank’s ability to integrate the branches and operations acquired, and the associated internal controls and regulatory functions, into the Bank’s current operations; the Bank’s ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by the Bank’s new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage the loans acquired; and the Bank’s ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in geographic areas not previously served. Additionally, no assurance can be given that the operation of acquired branches would not adversely affect the Bank’s existing profitability; that the Bank would be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by the Bank’s existing banking business; that the Bank would be able to compete effectively in the market areas served by acquired branches; or that the Bank would be able to manage any growth resulting from the transaction effectively. The Bank faces the additional risk that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or within the time period expected. Finally, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and trading values and therefore, may result in dilution of the Company’s book and tangible book value per share.. The Company’s future success depends on the success and growth of BNB Bank.. The Company’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, the Company’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary.  The continued and successful implementation of the Company’s growth strategy will require, among other things that the Bank increases its market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in the Bank’s market area.  In addition, the Company’s ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in the Bank’s market area, and the Bank’s ability to maintain high asset quality.  While the Company believes it has the management resources, market opportunities and internal systems in place to obtain and successfully manage future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and the Company may not be successful in continuing its growth strategy.  In addition, continued growth requires that the Company incurs additional expenses, including salaries, data processing and occupancy expense related to new branches and related support staff.  Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses.  Unless the Company can successfully continue its growth, its results of operations could be negatively affected by these increased costs.. The loss of key personnel could impair the Company’s future success.. The Company’s future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers, other key management, and staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel or its inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company may be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions.. Although economic and real estate conditions improved in 2017, the Company continues to operate in a challenging environment both nationally and locally. This poses significant risks to both the Company’s business and the banking industry as a whole. Although the Company has taken, and continues to take, steps to reduce its exposure to the risks that stem from adverse changes in such conditions, it nonetheless could be impacted by them to the degree that they affect the loans the Bank originates and the securities it invests in. Specific risks include reduced loan demand from quality borrowers; increased competition for loans; increased loan loss provisions resulting from deterioration in loan quality caused by, among other things, depressed real estate values and high levels of unemployment; reduced net interest income and net interest margin caused by a sustained period of low interest rates; interest rate volatility; price competition for deposits due to liquidity concerns or otherwise; and volatile equity markets.. Page -9-. Table of Contents. Increases to the allowance for credit losses may cause the Bank’s earnings to decrease.. Customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, the Bank may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Bank makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Bank relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance through charges to earnings would materially decrease the Bank’s net income.. Bank regulators periodically review the allowance for credit losses and may require the Bank to increase its provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s results of operations and/or financial condition.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company for the first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, will require that the Bank determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require the Bank to increase its allowance for loan losses, and will greatly increase the types of data the Bank would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.. The subordinated debentures the Company issued have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s common shareholders.. In 2015, the Company issued $40.0 million of 5.25% fixed-to-floating rate subordinated debentures due 2025 and $40.0 million of 5.75% fixed-to-floating rate subordinated debentures due 2030. Because these subordinated debentures rank senior to the Company’s common stock, if the Company fails to timely make principal and interest payments on the subordinated debentures, the Company may not pay any dividends on its common stock. Further, if the Company declares bankruptcy, dissolves or liquidates, it must satisfy all of its subordinated debenture obligations before it may pay any distributions on its common stock.. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, Federal and state regulators periodically examine the Company’s business, and it may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The FRB and the NYSDFS, periodically examine the Company’s business, including its compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the Company’s financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of its operations had become unsatisfactory, or that the Company was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in the Company’s capital, to restrict the Company’s growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against the Company’s officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank’s deposit insurance and place it into receivership or conservatorship. If the Company becomes subject to any regulatory actions, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. New and future rulemaking from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) may have a material effect on the Company’s operations and operating costs.. The CFPB has the authority to issue new consumer finance regulations and is authorized, individually or jointly with bank regulatory agencies, to conduct investigations to determine whether any person is, or has, engaged in conduct that violates new and existing consumer financial laws or regulations. However, because the Bank has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, the FRB and NYSDFS, not the CFPB, are responsible for examining and supervising the Bank’s compliance with these consumer protection laws and regulations. In addition, in accordance with a memorandum of understanding entered into between the CFPB and U.S. Department of Justice, the two agencies have agreed to coordinate efforts related to enforcing the fair lending laws, which includes information sharing and conducting joint investigations, and have done so on a number of occasions.. In addition, the CFPB has issued a final rule on arbitration that, among other things, prohibits class action waivers in certain consumer financial services contracts. The rule, which became effective on September 18, 2017, applies to contracts entered into on or after March 19, 2018 (and will not apply to prior contracts with class action waivers or arbitration agreements unless such accounts or debts are sold after that date). This rule could increase the likelihood that the Bank becomes subject to class action litigation concerning consumer banking products and services and could result in increased litigation costs.. Page -10-. Table of Contents. The Bank is subject to the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. With respect to the Bank, the NYSDFS, FRB, the United States Department of Justice and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank faces a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the federal Bank Secrecy Act (the “BSA”) and other anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing statutes and regulations.. The BSA, the USA PATRIOT Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among others, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering compliance program and to file reports such as suspicious activity reports and currency transaction reports. The Bank’s products and services, including its debit card issuing business, are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to protect consumers and to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit activities. The Banks is required to comply with these and other anti-money laundering requirements. The federal banking agencies and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network are authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and have recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts against banks and other financial services providers with the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. The Bank is also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the regulations administered and enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the Bank violates these laws and regulations, or its policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, the Bank would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on its ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of the Bank’s business plan, including its acquisition plans.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for the Bank. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain.. In July 2013, federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that revised their leverage and risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among other things, the rule established a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, set the leverage ratio at a uniform 4.0% of total assets, increased the minimum tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets and assigned a higher risk weight of 150% to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The rule also requires unrealized gains and losses on certain “available-for-sale” securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-out is exercised. The rule limits a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rule became effective January 1, 2015. The “capital conservation buffer’ is being phased in from January 1, 2016 to January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer will be effective.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if the Company was unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in the Company having to lengthen the terms of funding, restructure business models, and/or increase holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying the Company’s business strategy and could limit its ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares.. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect the Company’s operations and earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to the Company’s business. The Company collects, processes and stores sensitive customer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by it and third party service providers. The. Page -11-. Table of Contents. Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of the Company’s systems could deter customers from using the Bank’s products and services. Although the Company relies on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect the systems from compromises or breaches of security.. In addition, the Company maintains interfaces with certain third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers encounter difficulties, or if the Company has difficulty communicating with them, the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage the Company’s reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose it to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking, and identity theft.. There have been well-publicized distributed denials of service attacks on large financial services companies. Distributed denial of service attacks are designed to saturate the targeted online network with excessive amounts of network traffic, resulting in slow response times, or in some cases, causing the site to be temporarily unavailable. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and the Company may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. The Company may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss.. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could impact the Company’s ability to conduct business.. In the past, weather-related events have adversely impacted the Company’s market area, especially areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Such events that may cause significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common events in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems and the metropolitan New York area remains a central target for potential acts of terrorism. Such events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of the Company’s facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While the Company has established and regularly tests disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and financial condition.. The Company may incur impairment to its goodwill.. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the fair value of the net assets acquired. The Company recognized goodwill as an asset on its balance sheet in connection with the CNB, FNBNY and HSB acquisitions. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually. Although the Company determined that goodwill was not impaired during 2017, a significant and sustained decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in its expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill was necessary, then it would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to the Company’s consolidated financial statements."
