[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  Set forth below are certain risks related to our business, industry and common stock.. Changes in the demand for child care and other dependent care services, which may be negatively affected by economic conditions, may affect our operating results.. Our business strategy depends on employers recognizing the value in providing employees with child care and other dependent care services as an employee benefit.  The number of employers that view such services as cost-effective or beneficial to their workforces may not continue to grow at the levels we anticipate or may diminish.  In addition, demographic trends, including the number of two working parent or working single parent families in the workforce, may not continue to lead to increased demand for our services.  Such changes could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Even among employers that recognize the value of our services, demand may be adversely affected by general economic conditions.  Uncertainty or a deterioration in economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for our services as employer clients may reduce or eliminate their sponsorship of work and family services, and prospective clients may not commit resources to such services.  In addition, a reduction in the size of an employer's workforce could negatively impact the demand for our services and result in reduced enrollment or failure of our employer clients to renew their contracts.  A deterioration of general economic conditions may adversely impact the need for our services because out-of-work parents may decrease or discontinue the use of child care services, or be unwilling to pay tuition for high-quality services.  Additionally, we may not be able to increase tuition at a rate consistent with increases in our operating costs.  If demand for our services were to decrease, it could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Our business depends largely on our ability to hire and retain qualified teachers.. Our business depends on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified employees.  Our industry traditionally has experienced high turnover rates.  In addition, state laws require our teachers and other staff members to meet certain educational and other minimum requirements, and we often require that teachers and staff at our centers have additional qualifications.  We are also required by state laws to maintain certain prescribed minimum adult-to-child ratios.  If we are unable to hire and retain qualified teachers at a center, we could be required to reduce enrollment or be prevented from accepting additional enrollment in order to comply with such mandated ratios.  In certain markets, we may experience difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining qualified teachers, which may require us to offer increased salaries and enhanced benefits.  Increased salaries and enhanced benefits could result in increased costs at centers located in competitive markets.  Difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified personnel may also affect our ability to meet growth objectives in certain geographies and to take advantage of additional enrollment opportunities at our child care and early education centers in these markets.. Because our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and reputation as a provider of choice, adverse publicity could impact the demand for our services.. Our brand is critical to our business.  Adverse publicity concerning reported incidents or allegations of inappropriate, illegal or harmful acts to a child at any child care center or by a caregiver, whether or not directly relating to or involving Bright Horizons, could result in decreased enrollment at our child care centers, termination of existing corporate relationships or inability to attract new corporate relationships, or increased insurance costs, all of which could adversely affect our operations.  Brand value and our reputation can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in substantial litigation.  These incidents may arise from events that are beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands and reputation, such as instances of abuse or actions taken (or not taken) by one. 14. Table of Contents. or more center managers, teachers, or caregivers relating to the health, safety or welfare of children in our care.  In addition, from time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action against us.  Whether or not claims have merit, they may adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our services.  Such demand could also diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our services, which would likely result in lower sales, and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.  Any reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our brand value and our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness from the issuance of our term loans and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.  Information on our debt is included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis\" in Item 7 of this Annual Report and Note 9, \"Credit Arrangements and Debt Obligations,\" to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.  Our level of debt could have important consequences, including:. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements increasing our cost of borrowing;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the industry in which we compete; and. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates.. In addition, borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at variable rates.  If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flows and impact future earnings.  While we have entered into variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates on a portion of our debt, and may enter into additional agreements in the future, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk and may carry additional risks.  For information regarding our sensitivity to changes in interest rates, refer to \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" in Item 7A of Part II of this Annual Report.. The terms of our indebtedness restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to incur certain liens, make investments and acquisitions, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock, or enter into certain other types of contractual arrangements affecting our subsidiaries or indebtedness.  In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests, and we expect that the agreements governing any new senior secured credit facilities will contain similar requirements to satisfy financial condition tests and, with respect to any new revolving credit facility, maintain specified financial ratios, subject to certain conditions.  Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control.. A breach of the covenants under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities, or any replacement facility, could result in an event of default unless we obtain a waiver to avoid such default.  If we are unable to obtain a waiver, we may suffer adverse effects on our operations, business and financial condition, and such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.  In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness.. Acquisitions present many risks and may disrupt our operations.  We also may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction.. Acquisitions are an integral part of our growth strategy.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including potential difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, such as bringing new centers through the re-licensing or accreditation processes, successfully implementing our curriculum programs, diversion of management's attention and resources in connection with an acquisition and its integration, loss of key employees of the acquired operations, and failure of acquired operations to effectively and timely adopt our internal control processes and other policies.  Additionally, the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction may not be realized due to increased costs, undisclosed. 15. Table of Contents. liabilities not covered by insurance or by the terms of the acquisition, write-offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets, and other unexpected integration costs.  We also may not have success in identifying, executing and integrating acquisitions in the future.  The occurrence of any of these risks could have an impact on our business, results of operation, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the event of a larger acquisition or concurrent acquisitions.. Breaches in data security and other information technology interruptions could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. For various operational needs, we collect and store certain personal information from our clients, the families and children we serve, and our employees, including credit card information, which may expose us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as increased vulnerability to cyber-attacks.  We utilize third-party vendors and electronic payment methods to process and store some of this information.  While we have policies and practices that protect our data, failure of these systems to operate effectively or a compromise in the security of our systems that results in unauthorized persons or entities obtaining personal information could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our operations, operating results, and financial condition.  Breaches in our data security, those of our affiliates or other third-parties, could expose us to risks of data loss, inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, litigation or the imposition of penalties against us, liability, and could result in a disruption of our operations.  Any relating negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and changing requirements applicable to our business, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs and failure to comply with such regulations could result in significant penalties and damages which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The growth of our business may be adversely affected if we do not implement our growth strategies and initiatives successfully.. Our ability to grow in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to develop and expand new and existing client relationships, to continue to provide and expand the high-quality services we offer, to hire and train qualified personnel, and to expand and grow in existing and future markets.  Achieving and sustaining growth requires the successful execution of our growth strategies, which may require the implementation of enhancements to operational and financial systems, expanded sales and marketing capacity, and additional or new organizational resources.  We may be unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, or we may be unable to maintain or accelerate our growth.. Changes in laws and regulations could impact the way we conduct business.. Our child care and early education centers are subject to numerous national, state and local regulations and licensing requirements.  Although these regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, government agencies generally review, among other issues, the adequacy of buildings and equipment, licensed capacity, the ratio of adults to children, educational qualifications and training of staff, record keeping, dietary program, daily curriculum, hiring practices and compliance with health and safety standards.  Failure of a child care or early education center to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could subject it to governmental sanctions, which can include fines, corrective orders, probation or, in more serious cases, suspension or revocation of one or more of our child care centers' licenses to operate, and require significant expenditures to bring those centers into compliance.. Our continued profitability depends on our ability to pass on our increased costs to our customers.. Hiring and retaining key employees and qualified personnel, including teachers, is critical to our business.  Because we are primarily a service business, inflationary factors and regulatory changes that contribute to wage and benefits cost increases result in significant increases in the costs of running our business.  Although we expect to pay employees at rates above the minimum wage, increases in the statutory minimum wage rates could result in a corresponding increase in the wages and benefits we pay to our employees.  Additionally, increased competition for teachers in certain markets could result in significant increases in the costs of running our business.  Further, employee organizing efforts could also increase our payroll and benefits expenses.  Our success depends on our ability to continue to pass along these costs to our customers and to meet our changing labor needs while controlling costs.  In the event that we cannot increase the cost of our services to cover these higher wage and benefit costs without reducing customer demand for our services, our revenues could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our growth.. Our business activities subject us to litigation risks that may lead to significant reputational damage, monetary damages and other remedies and increase our litigation expense.. Because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to claims and litigation alleging negligence, inadequate supervision, illegal, inappropriate or abusive behavior, or other grounds for liability arising from injuries or other harm to the. 16. Table of Contents. people we serve, primarily children.  We may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination.  These claims and lawsuits could result in damages and other costs that our insurance may be inadequate to cover.  In addition to diverting our management resources, such allegations may result in publicity that may materially and adversely affect us and our brands, regardless of the validity of such allegations.  Any such claim or the publicity resulting from claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition including, without limitation, adverse effects caused by increased cost or decreased availability of insurance and decreased demand for our services from employer sponsors and families.. Our international operations may be subject to additional risks related to litigation, including difficulties enforcing contractual obligations governed by foreign law due to differing interpretations of rights and obligations, limitations on the availability of insurance coverage and limits, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems and reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property.  A substantial judgment against us or one of our subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. The success of our operations in international markets is highly dependent on the expertise of local management and operating staff, as well as the political, social, legal and economic operating conditions of each country in which we operate.. The success of our business depends on the actions of our employees.  In our international locations, we are highly dependent on our local management and operating staff to operate our centers in these markets in accordance with local law and best practices.  If the local management or operating staff were to leave our employment, we would have to expend significant time and resources building up our management or operational expertise.  Such a transition could adversely affect our reputation in these markets and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy.  As of December 31, 2017, we had 343 centers located in four foreign countries.  If the international markets in which we compete are affected by changes in political, social, legal, economic, or other factors, such as the economic uncertainty resulting from the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"), our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.  Our international operations may subject us to additional risks that differ in each country in which we operate, and such risks may negatively affect our results.  The factors impacting the international markets in which we operate may include changes in laws and regulations affecting the operation of child care centers, the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds, or increases in the taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws.. Our business is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results.. As a multinational company, we conduct our business in a variety of markets and are therefore subject to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Instability in European financial markets or other events, such as the economic uncertainty resulting from Brexit, could cause fluctuations in exchange rates that may adversely affect our revenues and net earnings.  Approximately 22% of our revenue was generated outside the United States in 2017.  While most of our revenues, costs and debts are denominated in U.S. dollars, revenues and costs from our operations outside of the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the center is located, and these currencies could become less valuable as a result of exchange rate fluctuations.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Changes in our relationships with employer sponsors may affect our operating results.. We derive a significant portion of our business from child care and early education centers associated with employer sponsors for whom we provide these services at single or multiple sites pursuant to contractual arrangements.  Our contracts with employers for full service center-based child care typically have terms of three to ten years, and our contracts related to back-up dependent care and educational advisory services typically have terms of one to three years.  While we have a history of consistent contract renewals, we may not experience a similar renewal rate in the future.  The termination or non-renewal of a significant number of contracts or the termination of a multiple-site client relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Significant increases in the costs of insurance or of insurance claims or our deductibles may negatively affect our profitability.. We currently maintain the following major types of commercial insurance policies: workers' compensation, commercial general liability (including coverage for sexual and physical abuse), professional liability, automobile liability, excess and \"umbrella\" liability, commercial property coverage, student accident coverage, employment practices liability, commercial crime coverage, fiduciary liability, privacy breach/cyber liability and directors' and officers' liability.  These policies are subject to various limitations, exclusions and deductibles.  A portion of our general liability coverage is provided by our wholly-owned captive insurance entity.  To date, we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate.  However, there is no assurance that our insurance, particularly coverage for sexual and physical abuse, will adequately cover our claims, may not continue to be readily available to us in the form or amounts we have been able to obtain in the past, or our insurance. 17. Table of Contents. premiums could materially increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business or in the child care industry.. We depend on key management and key employees to manage our business.. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees.  We believe future success will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly-skilled managerial, sales and marketing, divisional, regional and child care and early education center director personnel.  Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to disruptions in management and operations, which could affect our business and operating results.. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations.. Our revenue and results of operations fluctuate with the seasonal demands for child care and the other services we provide.  Revenue in our child care centers that have mature operating levels typically declines during the third quarter due to decreased enrollments over the summer months as families withdraw children for vacations and older children transition into elementary schools.  In addition, use of our back-up services tends to be higher when school is not in session and during holiday periods, which can increase the operating costs of the program and impact results of operations.  We may be unable to adjust our expenses on a short-term basis to minimize the effect of these fluctuations in revenue.  Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate based upon the number and timing of child care center openings and/or closings, acquisitions, the performance of new and existing child care and early education centers, the contractual arrangements under which child care centers are operated, the change in the mix of such contractual arrangements, competitive factors and general economic conditions.  The inability of existing child care centers to maintain their current enrollment levels and profitability, the failure of newly opened child care centers to contribute to profitability and the failure to maintain and grow our other services could result in additional fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis.. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations.. We compete for enrollment and sponsorship of our child care and early education centers in a highly-fragmented market.  For enrollment, we compete with family child care (operated out of the caregiver's home) and center-based child care (such as residential and work-site child care centers, full- and part-time nursery schools, private and public elementary schools and church-affiliated and other not-for-profit providers).  In addition, substitutes for organized child care, such as relatives and nannies caring for children, can represent lower cost alternatives to our services.  For sponsorship, we compete primarily with large community-based child care companies with divisions focused on employer sponsorship and with regional child care providers who target employer sponsorship.  We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including quality of care, site convenience and cost.  We often face a price disadvantage to our competition, which may have access to greater financial resources, greater name recognition or lower operating or compliance costs.  In addition, certain competitors may be able to operate with little or no rental expense and sometimes do not comply or are not required to comply with the same health, safety and operational regulations with which we comply.  Therefore, we may be unable to continue to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Our tax rate is dependent on a number of factors, a change in any of which could impact our future tax rates and net income.. As a global company, we are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, and our future tax rates and operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in the estimated realization of our deferred tax assets and settlement of our deferred tax liabilities; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; incremental taxes upon repatriation of non-U.S. earnings; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities.  Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another.  Any significant change in our jurisdictional earnings mix or in the tax laws in those jurisdictions could impact our future tax rates and net income in those periods.  In addition, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was signed into law.  While we have estimated the effects of the Tax Act, we continue to refine those estimates with the possibility they could change, and those changes could be material.  Any increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program or that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value.  Stock repurchases could also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves.. On August 2, 2016, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company was authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock up to a total repurchase price of $300 million.  Although our board of. 18. Table of Contents. directors has authorized the stock repurchase program, the stock repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares and may be suspended or terminated at any time.  Stock may be purchased from time to time, in the open market or through private transactions, subject to market conditions, in compliance with applicable state and federal securities laws.  The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, restrictions in our debt agreements, the trading price of our common stock and the nature of other investment opportunities.  In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect the market price of our common stock or increase its volatility.  For example, the existence of a stock repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock.  Additionally, our stock repurchase program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions.  There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we determine to repurchase our stock.  Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. Governmental universal child care benefit programs could reduce the demand for our services.. National, state or local child care benefit programs comprised primarily of subsidies in the form of tax credits or other direct government financial aid provide us opportunities for expansion in additional markets.  However, a universal benefit with governmentally mandated or provided child care could reduce the demand for early care services at our existing child care and early education centers due to the availability of lower cost care alternatives or could place downward pressure on the tuition and fees we charge, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. A regional or global health pandemic or other catastrophic event could severely disrupt our business.. A regional or global health pandemic, depending upon its duration and severity, could severely affect our business.  Enrollment in our child care centers could experience sharp declines as families might avoid taking their children out in public in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public interactions to halt or delay the spread of diseases causing business disruptions and the temporary closure of our centers.  Additionally, a health pandemic could also impair our ability to hire and retain an adequate level of staff.  A health pandemic may have a disproportionate impact on our business compared to other companies that depend less on the performance of services by employees.. Other unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labor issues), embargoes, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations or result in political or economic instability.  Enrollment in our child care centers could experience sharp declines as families might avoid taking their children out in public as a result of one or more of these events.. Our stock price could be extremely volatile, and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. Since our IPO in January 2013, the price of our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, has ranged from a low of $27.50 on January 25, 2013 to a high of $98.84 on February 1, 2018.  In addition, the stock market in general can be highly volatile.  As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment.  The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere herein and others such as:. • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us, our competitors, or our industry;. • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, or changes in business strategy;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in accounting principles;. 19. Table of Contents. • terrorist acts, acts of war, or periods of widespread civil unrest;. • natural disasters and other calamities; and. • changes in general market and economic conditions.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price.  This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote.. Pursuant to our restated bylaws, our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock.  Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, would likely result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock.. There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall.. As of February 16, 2018, there were 58,566,024 shares of common stock outstanding.  We have stockholders who each presently beneficially own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In addition, certain holders of shares of our common stock may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal security laws, and holders of additional shares of our common stock would be entitled to have their shares included in any such registration statement, all subject to reduction upon the request of the underwriter(s) of the offering, if any.  Registration of those shares would allow the holders to immediately resell their shares in the public market.  Any such sales or anticipation thereof could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. In addition, we have registered 5 million shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance under our 2012 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan.  As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 1.8 million shares of common stock available for grant.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that could be beneficial to stockholder value.. Our certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders.  These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders, including the need for super majority approval to amend, alter, change or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, a prohibition on the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent and certain limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting.  In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquiror.  Our certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock other than Bain Capital Partners.  As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the Company may be unsuccessful.. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above.  This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.  Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents"
