[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks, among others, may have affected, and in the future could materially affect, the Company and its subsidiaries' business, financial condition or results of operations.. Demand for products fluctuates significantly due to seasonality. In addition, changes in the weather and consumer confidence impact demand.. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal and consumer buying patterns. Consumer demand in our markets can be reduced by unfavorable weather and weak consumer confidence. Although we manufacture throughout the year, our sales are concentrated in the second half of our fiscal year. This operating method requires us to anticipate demand of our customers many months in advance. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given year, we may not be able to adjust our production quickly enough to avoid excess or insufficient inventories, and that may in turn limit our ability to maximize our potential sales or maintain optimum working capital levels.. We have only a limited ability to pass through cost increases in our raw materials to our customers during the year.. We generally enter into annual purchasing plans with our largest customers, so our ability to raise our prices during a particular year to reflect increased raw materials costs is limited.. A significant portion of our net sales comes from major customers and the loss of any of these customers would negatively impact our financial results.. In fiscal 2018, our three largest customers accounted for 27% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of any of these customers or a significant portion of the business from one or more of our key customers would significantly impact our net sales and profitability.. A significant change or disruption in the U.S. retail market for lawn and garden products could have an adverse impact on our business.. The retail market in the U.S. for lawn and garden products is concentrated with a few large traditional retailers. A disruption or significant change at any of these large traditional retailers could have an adverse impact on our customers and on our business.. Changes in environmental, tax, health care or other laws and regulations could require extensive changes in our operations or to our products.. Our operations and products are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials and health and safety matters as well as taxes, health care and data privacy. We do not expect these laws and regulations to have an adverse effect on us, but we cannot be certain that these or proposed changes in other applicable laws or regulations, or their enforcement, will not adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future.. Our international operations are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business or financial results.. In fiscal 2018, we derived approximately 28% of our consolidated net sales from international markets, primarily Europe. Our international operations are subject to various economic, political, and other risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results, including, but not limited to, regional or country specific economic downturns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, trade protection measures, tariffs, and other border taxes, labor practices, complications in complying with, or exposure to liability under, a variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption and export control laws and regulations, political instability and significant natural disasters and other events or factors impacting local infrastructure.. Actions of our competitors could reduce our sales or profits.. Our markets are highly competitive and we have a number of significant competitors in each market. Competitors may reduce their costs, lower their prices or introduce innovative products that could adversely. 5. affect our sales or profits. In addition, our competitors may focus on reducing our market share to improve their results.. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities or an inability to acquire and retain skill sets needed could harm our business and reputation.. Currently, approximately 10% of our workforce is represented by labor unions. The Labor Agreement with United Steelworkers Local 2-232 expired on July 31, 2017. This agreement covered 424 hourly employees in the Wauwatosa, Milwaukee and Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin facilities. We have met with the union and implemented our final offer to the Labor Union on June 14, 2018 but a new agreement has not been reached. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business and damage to our reputation. Union activity could also result in higher labor costs, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. In addition, an inability to acquire and retain skill sets needed in the business could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position.. Our level of debt and our ability to obtain debt financing could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by the indenture relating to the Senior Notes (as defined below) and our other credit agreements could have important consequences, including the following:. • we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations;. • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing;. • some or all of the debt under our current or future revolving credit facilities will be at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates;. • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions;. • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and. • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage.. The terms of the indenture for the 6.875% Senior Notes due December 2020 (the \"Senior Notes\") do not fully prohibit us from incurring substantial additional debt in the future and our revolving credit facilities permit additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions. If incremental debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify.. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the outstanding Senior Notes, the credit facilities and other debt primarily from our operations or by refinancing part of our existing debt. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that the money we earn will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the revolving credit facilities and our indentures, may restrict us from adopting certain of these alternatives.. We are restricted by the terms of the outstanding Senior Notes and our other debt, which could adversely affect us.. The indenture relating to the Senior Notes and our multicurrency credit agreement include a number of financial and operating restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. These covenants include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to:. • incur more debt;. 6. • pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions;. • make certain investments;. • create liens;. • transfer or sell assets;. • merge or consolidate; and. • enter into transactions with our affiliates.. In addition, our multicurrency credit agreement contains financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and impose a maximum average leverage ratio.. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates.. Worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced volatility in recent years due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, sovereign debt crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, changes in energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they may cause U.S. and foreign OEMs and consumers to slow spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any future economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the specific end markets we serve. If the consumer and commercial lawn and garden markets significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn.. In addition, in June 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". Negotiations between the U.K. and E.U are underway to determine the terms of Brexit. Given the lack of comparable precedent and the status of the negotiations, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications Brexit will have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Brexit could disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Moreover, Brexit could lead to changes in the regulatory environment for engines, and new or heightened regulatory and approval requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to sell our engines or other products in those markets. The announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We have goodwill and intangible assets, which were written down in fiscal 2016 and in prior years. If we determine that goodwill and other intangible assets have become further impaired in the future, net income in such years would be adversely affected.. At July 1, 2018, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately 17.9% of our total assets. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We are required to evaluate whether our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. In fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, there was no impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. In fiscal 2016, we recorded pre-tax non-cash goodwill and tradename impairment charges of $10.3 million. The impairments were determined as part of the fair value assessments of goodwill and other intangible assets. Any additional write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. 7. We are subject to litigation, including product liability, patent infringement, and warranty claims, that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty and liability (strict liability and negligence) claims, patent and trademark matters, contract disputes and environmental, asbestos, employment and other litigation matters. See Note 12, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of unresolved legal actions. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage or our products are alleged to be defective. In addition, we face an inherent risk that our competitors will allege that aspects of our product designs infringe their protected intellectual property. While we currently maintain general liability and product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations as a result of potential adverse outcomes, the expenses associated with defending such claims, the diversion of our management's resources and time and the potential adverse effect to our business reputation.. Our pension and postretirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and we may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses.. We have unfunded obligations under our domestic and foreign pension and postretirement benefit plans. As of July 1, 2018, our pension plans were underfunded by approximately $193 million. The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates, the mortality tables used, and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funding status of our pension plans and future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years.. Our dependence on, and the price of, raw materials may adversely affect our profits.. The principal raw materials used to produce our products are aluminum and steel. We source raw materials on a global or regional basis, and the prices of those raw materials are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate and other unforeseen circumstances. If we are unable to pass on raw material price increases to our customers, our future profitability may be adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by health and safety laws and regulations.. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with regulations could subject us to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production, as well as damage our reputation.. The operations and success of our Company can be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflict and political and governmental actions, which could harm our business.. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products or could disrupt our supply chain. We may also be impacted by actions by foreign governments, including currency devaluation, tariffs and nationalization, where our facilities, customers and/or suppliers are located. Furthermore, as a result of changes to U.S. administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the North American Free Trade Agreement, greater restrictions on free trade generally, or the enactment of or increases in tariffs, which could have an adverse impact on our. 8. operating results and financial position. Such changes to foreign or U.S. policies could also disrupt manufacturing and commercial operations. In addition, our foreign operations make us subject to certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the U.K. Bribery Act. A violation of these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and reputation.. We are subject to tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, and the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our operating results and financial position.. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position.. If we fail to remain current with changes in gasoline engine technology or if the technology becomes less important to customers in our markets due to the impact of alternative fuels or power sources, our results would be negatively affected. In addition, if we are unable to continue to enhance existing products, as well as develop and market new products, that respond to customer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, our results may be negatively impacted.. Our ability to remain current with changes in gasoline engine technology may significantly affect our business. Any advances in gasoline engine technology, including the impact of alternative fuels or power sources, may inhibit our ability to compete with other manufacturers. Our competitors may also be more effective and efficient at integrating new technologies.. Through our Products segment, we compete with certain customers of our Engines segment, thereby creating inherent channel conflict that may impact the actions of engine manufacturers and OEMs with whom we compete.. Through our Products segment, we compete with certain customers of our Engines segment. Any further forward integration of our products may strain relationships with OEMs that are significant customers of our Engines segment and have an adverse impact on operating results.. The financial stability of our suppliers and the ability of our suppliers to produce quality materials could adversely affect our ability to obtain timely and cost-effective raw materials.. The loss of certain of our suppliers or interruption of production at certain suppliers from adverse financial conditions, work stoppages, equipment failures or other unfavorable events would adversely affect our ability to obtain raw materials and other inputs used in the manufacturing process. Our cost of purchasing raw materials and other inputs used in the manufacturing process could be higher and could temporarily affect our ability to produce sufficient quantities of our products, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position.. An inability to successfully manage information systems, or to adequately maintain these systems and their security, as well as to protect data and other confidential information, could adversely affect our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary and regulated business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees. We depend on our information systems to successfully manage our business. We have taken steps to maintain adequate data security by implementing security technologies, internal controls, and network and data center resiliency and recovery processes. However, any inability to successfully manage these systems, including matters related to system and data security, privacy, reliability, compliance, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business.. 9. Despite our efforts, our information systems, like those of other companies, are susceptible to damage or interruption due to natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, breaches of security, system upgrades or new system implementations. Furthermore, our security measures may not detect or prevent all security threats, whether from intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data, such as denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions. Any operational failure or breach of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of both our and our customers' financial, product and other confidential information, result in regulatory actions and legal proceedings, or have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. The Company experienced a malware attack on its computer systems at its Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Munnsville, New York locations that potentially compromised information from approximately July 25, 2017 to July 28, 2017.  Immediate steps were taken to both contain and thoroughly investigate the attack.  The investigation revealed no evidence of actual misuse of any information.  The Company provided notice of the attack to the media, various state and federal agencies and potentially affected individuals in accordance with applicable legal requirements and also offered credit monitoring and identity theft services free of charge to such individuals.  In addition, the Company implemented process and technology improvements to enhance its protections.  However, attackers may outpace currently available malware preventative technologies and as a result, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience another malware attack in the future.. We have implemented, and Wisconsin law contains, anti-takeover provisions that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging or making it more difficult for someone to acquire us through a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though such an acquisition might be economically beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include a board of directors divided into three classes of directors serving staggered terms of three years each and the removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast in an election of directors.. We are subject to the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, which contains several provisions that could have the effect of discouraging non-negotiated takeover proposals or impeding a business combination.. These provisions include:. • requiring a supermajority vote of shareholders, in addition to any vote otherwise required, to approve business combinations not meeting adequacy of price standards;. • prohibiting some business combinations between an interested shareholder and us for a period of three years, unless the combination was approved by our board of directors prior to the time the shareholder became a 10% or greater beneficial owner of our shares or under some other circumstances;. • limiting actions that we can take while a takeover offer for us is being made or after a takeover offer has been publicly announced; and. • limiting the voting power of shareholders who own more than 20% of our stock.. An inability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions may adversely impact our sales, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity.. Our historical growth has included acquisitions, and our future growth strategy includes acquisition opportunities. For example, in fiscal 2015, the Company acquired Allmand, a leading designer and manufacturer of high quality towable light towers, industrial heaters and solar LED arrow boards, for approximately $59.9 million in cash. Also, in fiscal 2015,  the Company acquired Billy Goat, a leading manufacturer of specialty turf equipment, which includes aerators, sod cutters, overseeders, power rakes, brush cutters, walk behind blowers, lawn vacuums, and debris loaders, for total cash consideration of $28.3 million. We may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies in our target markets, economic conditions, competition from other bidders, or price expectations from sellers. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions, our growth may be limited.. 10. Additionally, as we grow through acquisitions, we will continue to place significant demands on management, operational, and financial resources. Recent and future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance and administrative operations, which could decrease the time available to serve and attract customers. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions, that these acquisitions will operate profitably, or that we will be able to achieve the desired financial or operational success. Our financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses, or if our other businesses suffer due to the increased focus on the newly acquired businesses.. An inability to successfully manage the upgrade of our global enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system could adversely affect our operations and operating results.. We are in the process of upgrading our global ERP system which went live on July 9, 2018. This upgrade will affect many of our existing operating and financial systems. This is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the upgrade not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results.. Our common stock is subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations.. The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price are those previously discussed, as well as:. • quarterly fluctuation in our operating income and earnings per share results;. • decline in demand for our products;. • significant strategic actions by our competitors, including new product introductions or technological advances;. • fluctuations in interest rates or foreign currency exchange;. • cost increases in energy, raw materials or labor;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; and. • domestic and international economic and political factors unrelated to our performance.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock."
