[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We wish to caution you that our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risk factors listed below could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results or from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this report, our other filings with the SEC, our news releases, or our other verbal or written communications. Additional risks and uncertainties that are currently not known or believed by us to be immaterial may also have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such event, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Competition may adversely affect our operations and financial results.. The restaurant business is highly competitive as to price, service, restaurant location, convenience, and type and quality of food. We compete within each market with locally-owned restaurants as well as national and regional restaurant chains. The casual dining segment of the restaurant industry has not seen significant growth in customer traffic in recent years. If this trend continues, our ability to grow customer traffic at our restaurants will depend on our ability to increase our market share within the casual dining segment. We also face competition from quick service and fast casual restaurants; the convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services; and meal kit and food delivery providers. We compete primarily on the quality, variety and value perception of menu items, as well as the quality and efficiency of service, the attractiveness of facilities and the effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs. Although we may implement a number of business strategies, the success of new products, initiatives and overall strategies is highly difficult to predict. If we are unable to compete effectively, our gross sales and profitability may decline.. 9. Table of Contents. Changes in consumer preferences may decrease demand for food at our restaurants.. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole depends on consumer preferences at the local, regional, national and international levels. New information or changes in dietary, nutritional or health insurance guidelines, whether issued by government agencies, academic studies, advocacy organizations or similar groups, may cause consumers to select foods other than those that are offered by our restaurants. We may not be able to adequately adapt our menu offerings to keep pace with developments in current consumer preferences, which may result in reductions to the revenues generated by our company-owned restaurants and the payments we receive from franchisees.. Food safety incidents at our restaurants or in our industry or supply chain may adversely affect customer perception of our brands or industry and result in declines in sales and profits.. Regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues at one of our restaurants or our franchisees' restaurants could irreparably damage our brand reputations and result in declines in customer traffic and sales at our restaurants. A food safety incident may subject us to regulatory actions and litigation, including criminal investigations, and we may be required to incur significant legal costs and other liabilities. Food safety incidents may occur in our supply chain and be out of our control. Health concerns or outbreaks of disease in a food product could also reduce demand for particular menu offerings. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors could result in negative publicity about the restaurant industry generally and adversely affect our sales or cause us to incur additional costs to implement food safety protocols beyond industry standards. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.. Global and domestic economic conditions may negatively impact consumer discretionary spending and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance.. The restaurant industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, which may be negatively affected by global and domestic economic conditions, such as: slow or negative growth, unemployment, credit conditions and availability, volatility in financial markets, inflationary pressures, weakness in the housing market, tariffs and trade barriers, and changes in government and central bank monetary policies. If economic conditions negatively affect consumer incomes, then discretionary spending for restaurant visits will be challenged, our guest traffic may deteriorate and the average amount guests spend in our restaurants may be reduced. This will negatively impact our revenues and also result in lower royalties collected, spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and in turn, cause downward pressure on our profitability. This could result in further reductions in staff levels, asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures. There is no assurance that any governmental plan to restore fiscal responsibility or future plans to stimulate the economy will foster growth in consumer confidence, consumer incomes or consumer spending.. Unfavorable publicity relating to one or more of our restaurants in a particular brand may taint public perception of the brand.. Multi-unit restaurant businesses can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, customer complaints, litigation, illness or health concerns or other issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants, regardless of whether such events have a factual basis. In particular, since we depend heavily on the Chili's brand for a majority of our revenues, unfavorable publicity relating to one or more Chili's restaurants could have a material adverse effect on the Chili's brand, and consequently on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The speed at which negative publicity (whether or not accurate) can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the capabilities of the internet. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to such reports, we may suffer declines in guest traffic which could materially impact our financial performance.. Employment and labor laws and regulations may increase the cost of labor for our restaurants.. We are subject to various federal, state and local employment and labor laws and regulations that govern employment and labor matters, including, employment discrimination, minimum wages, work scheduling, overtime, tip credits, tax reporting, working conditions, safety standards, family leave and immigration status. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly, and a failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws could result in. 10. Table of Contents. negative publicity or litigation. Many states and localities are contemplating increases to their minimum wage and tip credit wage, and such increases can have a significant impact on our labor costs. In addition, new employment or labor laws may mandate additional benefits for employees or impose additional obligations that may adversely impact the costs of labor, the availability of labor and our business operations. In addition, our suppliers may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. There are no assurances that a combination of cost management and price increases can accommodate all of the costs associated with compliance.. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing and future operations and to open new restaurants.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and which increase our exposure to litigation and governmental proceedings. Among other laws and regulations, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the design and operation of facilities, licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies, nutritional content and menu labeling, including the Affordable Care Act which requires restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity, changes in sales mix and profitability, and increased exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. We cannot reliably anticipate any changes in guest behavior resulting from implementation of these laws.. We are also subject to federal and state environmental regulations, and although these have not had a material negative effect on our operations, we cannot ensure this will not occur in the future. In particular, the U.S. and other foreign governments have increased focus on environmental matters such as climate change, greenhouse gases and water conservation. These efforts could result in increased taxation or in future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance.. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations which govern the offer and sale of franchises and which may supersede the terms of franchise agreements between us and our franchisees. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchisees. Due to our international franchising, we are also subject to governmental regulations throughout the world impacting the way we do business with our international franchisees. These include antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance.. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state, local, and international authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.. Successful strategic transactions are important to our future growth and profitability.. We evaluate and may pursue opportunities for growth through new and existing franchise partners, joint venture investments, acquisition of restaurant concepts, expansion of our brands to other retail opportunities, and strategic mergers, acquisitions and divestitures. These strategic initiatives involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation:. • inaccurate assessment of the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of such strategic initiatives;. 11. Table of Contents. • damaging our reputation if the strategic initiatives result in products or services that are not of the same quality that our customers associate with our brands;. • diversion of management's attention and focus from existing operations to the strategic initiative;. • inability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies;. • challenges in successfully integrating an acquired business and instilling our company culture in new management and team members;. • potential loss of key personnel of any acquired business; and. • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business or the completion of a divestiture.. If we are unable to successfully design and execute a business strategy plan, our gross sales and profitability may be adversely affected.. Our ability to increase revenues and profitability is dependent on designing and executing effective business strategies. If we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our ability to meet our business strategy plan is dependent upon, among other things, our and our franchisees' ability to:. • increase gross sales and operating profits at existing restaurants with food and beverage options desired by our guests;. • evolve our marketing and branding strategies in order to appeal to guests;. • innovate and implement technology initiatives that provide a unique digital guest experience;. • identify adequate sources of capital to fund and finance strategic initiatives, including reimaging of existing restaurants, new restaurant development and new restaurant equipment;. • grow and expand operations, including identifying available, suitable and economically viable locations for new restaurants; and. • improve the speed and quality of our service.. Loss of key management personnel could hurt our business and limit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on our leadership team and other key management personnel. These personnel serve to maintain a corporate vision for our Company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficiently experienced and capable key management personnel, our business and financial results may suffer.. Failure to recruit, train and retain high-quality restaurant management and team members may result in lower guest satisfaction and lower sales and profitability.. Our restaurant-level management and team members are largely responsible for the quality of our service. Our guests may be dissatisfied and our sales may decline if we fail to recruit, train and retain managers and team members that effectively implement our business strategy and provide high quality guest service. There is active competition for quality management personnel and hourly team members. If we experience high turnover, we may experience higher labor costs and have a shortage of adequate management personnel required for future growth.. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business.. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media and similar platforms which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Many social media platforms immediately. 12. Table of Contents. publish the content their subscribers and participants' post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and may harm our performance, prospects or business, regardless of the information's accuracy.. As part of our marketing strategy, we rely on search engine marketing, social media and new technology platforms to attract and retain guests and maintain brand relevance. Our strategy and initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without improvement in guest traffic or brand relevance. In addition, a variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about us, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our guests or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. Failure to protect the integrity and security of payment card or individually identifiable information of our guests and teammates or confidential and proprietary information of the Company could damage our reputation and expose us to loss of revenues, increased costs and litigation.. A significant portion of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Our technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our guests and team members, as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. If our technology systems, or those of third party services providers we rely upon, are compromised as a result of a cyber attack (including whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks, hacking, \"phishing\" attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, or social engineering) or other external or internal method, it could result in an adverse and material impact on our reputation, operations, and financial condition. Such security breaches could also result in litigation or governmental investigation against us, as well as the imposition of penalties. These impacts could also occur if we are perceived either to have had an attack or to have failed to properly respond to an incident.. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change or cyber risks evolve pertaining to data, we may incur significant additional costs in technology, third-party services and personnel to maintain systems designed to anticipate and prevent cyber attacks. As further described below, the Company experienced a cyber security incident at some Chili's locations. As a result of the incident, we have taken certain additional preventative measures to reduce cyber risks. However, we cannot provide assurance that our security frameworks and measures  will be successful in preventing future cyber attacks or data loss. In addition, we expect the cost to maintain cyber liability insurance in the future will materially increase as a result of the incident.. We have incurred and in the future may incur costs and reputational harm resulting from the unauthorized access or acquisition of confidential consumer information related to our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions.. On May 12, 2018, we issued a public statement notifying guests that we had discovered that credit and debit card numbers and related payment card information may have been acquired from Chili's locations without authorization as a result of a malware attack. The Company has engaged third-party forensic firms and cooperated with law enforcement to investigate the matter. Based on the investigation of our third-party forensic experts, we believe most Company-owned Chili's restaurants were impacted by the malware during time frames that vary by restaurant, but we believe in each case beginning no earlier than March 21, 2018 and ending no later than April 22, 2018. As a result of the incident, we may incur losses associated with anticipated claims by payment card companies for card issuer losses and card replacement costs, as well as fines, penalties and other charges issued by payment card companies. In addition, we are the defendant in purported class action lawsuits, alleging that we negligently failed to provide adequate security to protect the payment card information of the plaintiffs, causing those individuals to suffer financial losses. We may also be subject to fines and penalties imposed by state and federal regulators relating to or arising out of the incident. In the future we may become subject to additional claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also become subject to additional lawsuits or proceedings relating to the incident. While we do not acknowledge responsibility to pay any such amounts imposed or demanded, these proceedings and demands may result in related settlement costs.. 13. Table of Contents. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance, we are not able to reliably forecast all of the losses that may occur as a result of the incident. It is possible that our losses will be in excess of our cyber liability insurance coverage applicable to the incident. If losses exceed our cyber liability insurance coverage such excess losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in future periods.. Further, the incident may have a negative impact on our reputation and cause guests to lose confidence in our ability to safeguard their information. We are unable to definitively determine the impact to our relationship with our guests and whether we will need to engage in significant promotional or other activities to rebuild our relationship with our guests. If the Company experiences another cyber security incident in the future, we believe it will be even more difficult to regain the trust of our guests and to rebuild our reputation.. Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other products may increase costs or reduce revenues.. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other products to our restaurants caused by inclement weather; natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes; shortages in the availability of truck drivers; the inability of our suppliers to obtain credit in a tight credit market; food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements; animal disease outbreaks; or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply-chain risk could increase our costs or reduce revenues and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations.. The large number of Company-owned restaurants concentrated in Texas, Florida and California makes us susceptible to changes in economic and other trends in those regions.. A high concentration of our company-owned restaurants are located in Texas, Florida and California comprising 21.7%, 13.8% and 11.7%, respectively, as of June 27, 2018. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in those states. Negative publicity, local economic conditions, local strikes, energy shortages or extreme fluctuations in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters in regions where our restaurants are highly concentrated could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. For example, declines in oil prices may increase levels of unemployment and cause other economic pressures that result in lower sales and profits at our restaurants in oil market regions of Texas and surrounding areas.. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance.. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business or out of special circumstances. These matters typically involve claims by guests, team members and others regarding issues such as food-borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry, as well as contract disputes and intellectual property infringement matters. Our franchise activity also creates a risk of us being named as a joint employer of workers of franchisees for alleged violations of labor and wage laws. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. The success of our franchisees is important to our future growth.. We have a significant percentage of system-wide restaurants owned and operated by our franchisees. While our franchise agreements are designed to require our franchisees to maintain brand consistency, the franchise relationship reduces our direct day-to-day oversight of these restaurants and may expose us to risks not otherwise encountered if we maintained ownership and control. Our reputation and financial results may be negatively impacted by: franchisee defaults in their obligations to us; limitations on our ability to enforce franchise obligations due to bankruptcy proceedings; franchisee failures to participate in business strategy changes due to financial constraints; franchisee failures to meet obligations to pay employees; and franchisees' failure to comply with food quality and preparation requirements.. 14. Table of Contents. Additionally, our international franchisees are subject to risks not encountered by our domestic franchisees, and royalties paid to us may decrease if their businesses are negatively impacted. These risks include:. • difficulties in achieving consistency of product quality and service as compared to U.S. operations;. • changes to recipes and menu offerings to meet cultural norms;. • challenges to obtain adequate and reliable supplies necessary to provide menu items and maintain food quality; and. • differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, cultural, social and political conditions.. Downgrades in our credit ratings could impact our ability to access capital and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Credit rating agencies may change their credit rating for us, among other things, based on the performance of our business, our capital strategies or their overall view of our industry. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding public debt securities will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any such ratings will not be further lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant.. A downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things:. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • limit our ability to access capital;. • result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur, including restrictions on our ability to pay distributions or repurchase shares;. • require us to provide collateral for any future borrowings; and. • adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities.. Inflation and fluctuations in energy costs may increase our operating expenses.. We have experienced impact from inflation and fluctuations in utility and energy costs. Inflation has caused added food, labor and benefits costs and increased our operating expenses. Fluctuations and increases in utility and energy costs have also increased our operating expenses on regional or national levels, including through suppliers putting pressure on margins by passing on higher prices for petroleum-based fuels. As operating expenses rise, we, to the extent permitted by competition, recover costs by raising menu prices, or by implementing alternative products, processes or cost reduction procedures. We cannot ensure, however, we will be able to continue to recover increases in operating expenses due to inflation in this manner.. Challenges to the retail industry may negatively affect guest traffic at our restaurants.. Other tenants at retail centers in which we are located or have executed leases may fail to open or may cease operations as a result of challenges specific to the retail industry, including competition from online retailers. Decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers and changes in guest visits to the retail centers in which we are located may negatively affect guest traffic at our restaurants.. We are dependent on information technology and any material failure in the operation or security of that technology or our ability to execute a comprehensive business continuity plan could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business.. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations, and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of. 15. Table of Contents. these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations.. Additionally, our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are handled primarily at our restaurant support center. We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including tornadoes and other natural disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims.. Failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business.. We regard our Chili's® and Maggiano's® service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. However, we are aware of names and marks identical or similar to our service marks being used from time to time by other entities. Although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant. Although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources.. We outsource certain business processes to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs.. Some business processes are or may in the future be outsourced to third parties. Such processes include certain information technology processes, gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, insurance claims processing, certain payroll processing, tax filings and other accounting processes. We also continue to evaluate our other business processes to determine if additional outsourcing is a viable option to accomplish our goals. We make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities and adequate security frameworks to guard against breaches or data loss; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or ability to accomplish our financial and management reporting.. Declines in the market price of our common stock or changes in other circumstances that may indicate an impairment of goodwill could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. We perform our annual goodwill impairment tests in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Interim goodwill impairment tests are also required when events or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. It is possible that a change in circumstances such as the decline in the market price of our common stock or changes in consumer spending levels, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made in assessing the appropriate valuation of our goodwill, could negatively impact the valuation of our brands and create the potential for a non-cash charge to recognize impairment losses on some or all of our goodwill. If we were required to write down a portion of our goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected.. 16. Table of Contents. Changes to estimates related to our property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations, may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets.. We make certain estimates and projections with respect to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value. The projection of future cash flows used in the analyses requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We are subject to the internal control requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our processes for designing and implementing effective internal controls involve continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business as well as in the economic and regulatory environments. As a result, we expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take as part of this effort will be sufficient to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in consolidated financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, or result in regulatory scrutiny, penalties or shareholder litigation, all of which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Our business and operation could be negatively affected if we become subject to any securities litigation or shareholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of investment strategy and impact our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in publicly traded companies recently. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price and for a variety of other reasons, we may become the target of securities litigation or shareholder activism. Securities litigation and shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs and legal fees and divert management's and our board of directors' attention and resources from our business. Additionally, such securities litigation and shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with service providers and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Further, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any securities litigation and shareholder activism.. From time to time we may implement measures that make it more difficult for an activist investor or potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire the Company through a merger or similar transaction. These measures may discourage investment in our common stock and may delay or discourage acquisitions that would result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares over the then-current market price.. Other risk factors may adversely affect our financial performance.. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in forward-looking statements, include, without limitation, changes in financial and credit markets (including rising interest rates); increased fuel costs and availability for our team members, customers and suppliers; increased health care costs; health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events; changes in consumer behaviors; changes in demographic trends; labor shortages and availability of employees; union organization; strikes; terrorist acts; energy shortages and rolling blackouts; and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional winter storms); inadequate insurance coverage; and limitations imposed by our credit agreements.. 17. Table of Contents"
