[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If you hold our securities or are considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report.. Risks Relating to Our Clients and Contracts. The demand for our services is substantially dependent on the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity.. We provide helicopter and fixed wing services to companies engaged in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. As a result, demand for our services, as well as our revenue and our profitability, are substantially dependent on the worldwide levels of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. These activity levels are principally affected by trends in, and expectations regarding, oil and natural gas prices, as well as the capital expenditure budgets of offshore energy companies. We cannot predict future exploration, development and production activity or oil and gas price movements. Historically, the prices for oil and gas and activity levels have been volatile and are subject to factors beyond our control, such as:. • the supply of and demand for oil and gas and market expectations for such supply and demand;. • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil producing countries to control prices or change production levels;. • general economic conditions, both worldwide and in particular regions;. • governmental regulation;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • weather conditions, including the impact of hurricanes and other weather-related phenomena;. • advances in exploration, development and production technology;. • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and. • the worldwide political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, Nigeria or other geographic areas, or further acts of terrorism in the U.K., U.S. or elsewhere.. Additionally, an increase in onshore fracking, which generally does not require use of our services, could have an adverse effect on our operations. If onshore fracking were to meaningfully increase globally, and if it were to drive a meaningful increase in the supply of hydrocarbons without an increase in global demand, it could potentially adversely impact oil and natural gas prices and the level of activity in our offshore oil and gas markets and the demand for our industrial aviation services.. A focus by our clients on cost-saving measures rather than quality of service, which is how we differentiate ourselves from competition, could reduce the demand for our services.. Historically, we had the ability to secure profitable contracts by providing superior quality as compared to our competitors. However, offshore energy companies are continually seeking to implement measures aimed at greater cost savings, including efforts to accept lesser quality services, otherwise improve cost efficiencies with respect to air transportation services, or to provide other alternatives for transportation, such as boats. For example, these companies may reduce staffing levels on both old and new installations by using new technology to permit unmanned installations, may reduce the frequency of transportation of employees by increasing the length of shifts offshore, may change other aspects of how our services are scheduled and may consider other alternatives to our services to achieve cost savings. In addition, these companies could initiate their own helicopter, airplane or other transportation alternatives. The continued implementation of these kinds of measures could reduce the demand or pricing for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition.. The helicopter and fixed wing businesses are highly competitive throughout the world. Chartering of such aircraft is often done on the basis of competitive bidding among those providers having the necessary equipment, operational experience and resources. Factors that affect competition in our industry include price, quality of service, operational experience, record of safety, quality and type of equipment, client relationship and professional reputation.. Our industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels. There have been periods of high demand for our services, followed by periods of low demand for our services. Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and often result in our aircraft being idle for long periods of time.. We have several significant competitors in the North Sea, Nigeria, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Australia, Canada and Brazil, and a number of smaller local competitors in other markets. Certain of our clients have the capability to perform their own air transportation operations or give business to our competitors should they elect to do so, which has a limiting effect on our rates.. As a result of significant competition, we must continue to provide safe and efficient service and we must continue to evolve our technology or we will lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to the loss of a significant number of our clients or termination of a significant number of our contracts. See further discussion in Item 1. \"Business  -  Competition\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. We depend on a small number of large offshore energy industry clients for a significant portion of our revenue.. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of offshore energy companies. Our loss of one of these significant clients, if not offset by sales to new or other existing clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. \"Business  -  Clients and Contracts\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Our contracts often can be terminated or downsized by our clients without penalty.. Many of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the client at their convenience, generally without penalty, and with limited notice requirements. In addition, many of our contracts permit our clients to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the strength of our client contracts or the terms of those contracts.. Our U.K. SAR contract can be terminated and is subject to certain other rights of the DfT.. The U.K. SAR contract allows the DfT to cancel the contract for any reason upon notice and payment of a specified cancellation fee based on the number of bases reduced as a result of the exercise and the timing of the exercise. Additionally, the U.K. SAR contract grants the DfT the option to require us to transfer to the DfT, at termination or expiration, either the lease or the ownership of some or all of the helicopters that service the U.K. SAR contract. The DfT may alternatively require that we or the owner, as the case may be, transfer the lease or ownership of the helicopters to any replacement service provider. If the DfT wishes to transfer ownership it must pay a specified option exercise fee based on the value of the helicopters.  If the DfT wishes to transfer the lease it does not have to pay an option exercise fee. We currently lease the majority of the aircraft that service the U.K. SAR contract. Although we are entitled to some compensation for termination or early expiration if we are not at fault, termination or early expiration of the U.K. SAR contract would result in a significant loss of expected revenue. Additionally, we do not have the right to transfer the ground facilities supporting the U.K. SAR contract to the replacement service provider. If alternative long-term uses were not identified for these facilities, we could incur recurring fixed expenses for these recently acquired, non-revenue producing assets if we were unable to sell them to a replacement contractor or other party in the event the U.K. SAR contract is terminated.. Our clients may shift risk to us.. We give to and receive from our clients indemnities relating to damages caused or sustained by us in connection with our operations. Our clients' changing views on risk allocation together with deteriorating market conditions could force us to accept greater risk to win new business, retain renewing business or could result in us losing business if we are not prepared to take such risks. To the extent that we accept such additional risk, and seek to insure against it, if possible, our insurance premiums could rise. If we cannot insure against such risks or otherwise choose not to do so, we could be exposed to catastrophic losses in the event such risks are realized.. 16. Table of Contents. We may not be able to obtain client contracts with acceptable terms covering some of our new helicopters, and some of our new helicopters may replace existing helicopters already under contract, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet.. We have ordered, and have options for, a substantial number of new helicopters. Many of our new helicopters may not be covered by client contracts when they are delivered to us, and we cannot assure you as to when we will be able to utilize these new helicopters or on what terms. To the extent our helicopters are covered by a client contract when they are delivered to us, some of these contracts may be for a short term, requiring us to seek renewals more frequently. Alternatively, we expect that some of our clients may request new helicopters in lieu of our existing helicopters, which could adversely affect the utilization of our existing fleet.. Reductions in spending on industrial aviation services by government agencies could lead to modifications of SAR contract terms or delays in receiving payments, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any reductions in the budgets of government agencies for spending on industrial aviation services, implementation of cost saving measures by government agencies, including the DfT, imposed modifications of contract terms or delays in collecting receivables owed to us by our government agency clients could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, there are inherent risks in contracting with government agencies. Applicable laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate may enable our government agency clients to (i) terminate contracts for convenience, (ii) reduce, modify or cancel contracts or subcontracts if requirements or budgetary constraints change, or (iii) terminate contracts or adjust their terms.. Our fixed operating expenses and long-term contracts with clients could adversely affect our business under certain circumstances.. Our profitability is directly related to demand for our services. Because of the significant expenses related to aircraft financing and leasing, crew wages and benefits, and insurance and maintenance programs, a substantial portion of our operating expenses are fixed and must be paid even when aircraft are not actively servicing clients and thereby generating revenue. A decrease in our revenue could therefore result in a disproportionate decrease in our earnings, as a substantial portion of our operating expense would remain unchanged. Similarly, the discontinuation of any rebates, discounts or preferential financing terms offered to us by manufacturers, lenders or lessors could have the effect of increasing our related expenses, and without a corresponding increase in our revenue, could negatively impact our results of operations.. Certain of our long-term aircraft services contracts contain price escalation terms and conditions. Although supplier costs, fuel costs, labor costs, insurance costs, and other cost increases are typically passed through to our clients through rate increases where possible, these escalations may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup increased costs in full and we may not be able to realize the full benefit of contract price escalations during a market downturn. There can be no assurance that we will be able to estimate costs accurately or recover increased costs by passing these costs on to our clients. We may not be successful in identifying or securing cost escalations for other costs that may escalate during the applicable client contract term. In the event that we are unable to fully recover material costs that escalate during the terms of our client contracts, the profitability of our client contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected.. Additionally, cost increases related to our airline scheduled service cannot be passed on to previously purchased air passenger tickets but may be passed on partially or wholly to future purchased tickets if the rates remain competitive to other competing airlines.. 17. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Business. In order to support our business, we may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us.. Our business is capital intensive, and to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we will need to raise additional funds through bank debt, public or private debt, or equity financings to execute our growth strategy and to fund operating losses. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed, or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or certain types of convertible debt securities, dilution to the holdings of existing stockholders may result. Further, if we raise additional debt financing, we will incur additional interest expense and the terms of such debt may be at less favorable rates than existing debt and could require the pledge of additional assets as security or subject us to financial and/or operating covenants that affect our ability to conduct our business. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to acquire additional aircraft, take advantage of business opportunities, fund operating losses or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. See discussion of our capital commitments in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Future Cash Requirements\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. The vote by the United Kingdom to leave the E.U. could adversely affect us.. In a referendum held on June 23, 2016, voters in the U.K. approved Brexit. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. government commenced the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union by notifying the European Council of the U.K.'s intention to leave the E.U. This notification starts a two-year time period for the U.K. and the remaining E.U. Member States to negotiate a withdrawal agreement.. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 37%, 36% and 34%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from contracts with customers in the U.K., and for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 18%, 16% and 16%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from contracts with customers in other European markets.. The consequences of Brexit, together with the protracted negotiations around the terms of Brexit, could introduce significant uncertainties into global financial markets and adversely impact the regions in which we and our clients operate. In the long term, Brexit could also create uncertainty with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our customers in the U.K. are subject and lead to divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. government determines which E.U. laws to modify or replace. Brexit also exacerbates the potential for additional referendums within the U.K., such as in Scotland, which could lead to a breakup of the U.K, creating further legal and regulatory uncertainty.. The Brexit vote initially resulted in a significant decline in the value of British pound sterling. While the British pound sterling has since partially recovered as negotiations over the terms of Brexit have progressed, volatility in exchange rates remains possible. If the British pound sterling weakens once again, revenue under contracts denominated in British pound sterling will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. For fiscal years 2018 and 2017, revenue denominated in British pound sterling represented 35% and 34% of our revenue, respectively. The uncertainties surrounding Brexit and risks associated with the commencement of Brexit could have a material adverse effect on our current business and future growth.. We may undertake one or more significant corporate transactions that may not achieve their intended results, may adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations or result in unforeseeable risks to our business.. We continuously evaluate the acquisition or disposition of operating businesses and assets and may in the future undertake one or more significant transactions. Any such transaction could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including mergers, joint ventures and the purchase of equity interests. The consideration for such acquisitive transactions may include, among other things, cash, common stock or equity interests in us or our subsidiaries, or a contribution of equipment to obtain equity interests, and in conjunction with a transaction we might incur additional indebtedness. We also routinely evaluate the benefits of disposing of certain of our assets.. These transactions may present significant risks such as insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed, potential loss of significant revenue and income streams, increased or unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, regulatory or compliance issues, the triggering of certain covenants in our debt agreements (including accelerated repayment) and unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence. In addition, such transactions could distract management from current operations. As a result of the risks inherent in such transactions, we cannot guarantee that any such transaction will ultimately result in the realization of its anticipated benefits or that it will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to complete such an acquisition, disposition, investment or other strategic transaction, we may require additional debt or equity financing that could result in a significant increase in our amount of debt and our debt service obligations or the number of outstanding shares of our common stock, thereby diluting holders of our common stock outstanding prior to such acquisition.. 18. Table of Contents. Our operations involve a degree of inherent risk that may not be covered by our insurance and may increase our operating costs.. The operation of helicopters and fixed wing aircraft inherently involves a degree of risk. Hazards such as harsh weather and marine conditions, mechanical failures, facility fires and spare parts damage, pandemic outbreaks, crashes and collisions are inherent in our business and may result in personal injury, loss of life, damage to property and equipment, suspension or reduction of operations, reduced number of flight hours and the grounding of such aircraft or insufficient ground facilities or spare parts to support operations. In addition to any loss of property or life, our revenue, profitability and margins could be materially affected by an accident or asset damage.. We, or third parties operating our aircraft, may experience accidents or damage to our assets in the future. These risks could endanger the safety of both our own and our clients' personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment. If any of these events were to occur with equipment or other assets that we need to operate or lease to third parties, we could experience loss of revenue, termination of charter contracts, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and client relationships. In addition, to the extent an accident occurs with aircraft we operate or to assets supporting operations, we could be held liable for resulting damages. Even where losses or liability for damages is covered by insurance, we may incur deductibles and additional insurance premiums. The lack of sufficient insurance for an incident or accident could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Certain models of aircraft that we operate have also experienced accidents while operated by third parties. Most recently, on April 29, 2016, an incident occurred with an Airbus Helicopters EC225LP (also known as an H225) model helicopter operated by another helicopter company, which resulted in the loss of life for eleven passengers and two crew members in Norway. This incident resulted in the civil aviation authorities in the U.K. and Norway issuing safety directives that required the operators to suspend commercial operations of the affected aircraft pending determination of the root cause. Although the civil aviation authorities have since issued a safety directive providing for return to service, our H225 fleet of 24 aircraft remains grounded globally as a result of this incident. If other operators experience accidents with aircraft models that we operate or lease, obligating us to take such aircraft out of service until the cause of the accident is rectified, we could lose revenue and clients. In addition, safety issues experienced by a particular model of aircraft could result in clients refusing to use that particular aircraft model or a regulatory body grounding that particular aircraft model. The value of the aircraft model might also be permanently reduced in the market if the model were to be considered less desirable for future service and the inventory for such aircraft may be impaired.. We attempt to protect ourselves against financial losses and damage by carrying insurance, including hull and liability, general liability, workers' compensation, and property and casualty insurance. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, and we do not carry insurance against all types of losses, including business interruption. We cannot assure you that our existing coverage will be sufficient to protect against all losses, that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage in the future or that the premiums will not increase substantially. In addition, future terrorist activity, risks of war, accidents or other events could increase our insurance premiums. The loss of our liability insurance coverage, inadequate coverage from our liability insurance or substantial increases in future premiums could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain standards of acceptable safety performance may have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain clients and could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial performance.. Our clients consider safety and reliability as two of the primary attributes when selecting a provider of air transportation services. If we fail to maintain standards of safety and reliability that are satisfactory to our clients, our ability to retain current clients and attract new clients may be adversely affected. Accidents or disasters could impact client or passenger confidence in a particular fleet type, us or the air transportation services industry as a whole and could lead to a reduction in client contracts, particularly if such accidents or disasters were due to a safety fault in a type of aircraft used in our fleet. In addition, the loss of aircraft as a result of accidents could cause significant adverse publicity and the interruption of air services to our clients, which could adversely impact our reputation, operations and financial results. Our aircraft have been involved in accidents in the past, some of which have included loss of life and property damage. We may experience similar accidents in the future.. 19. Table of Contents. Our diversification efforts into other industrial aviation services such as fixed wing, SAR, and unmanned aerial vehicle services may prove unsuccessful.. Our business has traditionally been significantly dependent upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity. Although the company has begun diversification efforts with the award for the provision of SAR services in the U.K. and investments in Eastern Airways, Airnorth and Sky-Futures, the effect of the downturn in the oil and gas industry has nevertheless negatively impacted our financial results and could continue to negatively impact our financial results in future periods. While diversification into other industrial aviation services is intended over the long term to grow the business and offset the cyclical nature of the underlying oil and gas business, we cannot be certain that diversification benefits associated with those lines of business will be realized at any point.. Our operations in certain regions of the world are subject to additional risks.. Operations in certain regions are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business in international locations, including:. • political, social and economic instability, including risks of war, general strikes and civil disturbances;. • physical and economic retribution directed at U.S. and foreign companies and personnel;. • governmental actions that restrict payments or the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights;. • violations of our Code;. • adverse tax consequences;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange that affect demand for our services and our profitability;. • potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act and Brazil's Clean Companies Act (the \"BCCA\");. • the taking of property without fair compensation; and. • the lack of well-developed legal systems in some countries that could make it difficult for us to enforce our contractual rights.. Historically, there has been continuing political and social unrest in Nigeria, where we derived 14%, 15% and 14% of our gross revenue during fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2015, there was a change in the leadership in Nigeria. The current leadership is facing numerous challenges which, if not addressed, may cause political or social unrest and result in a lack of demand for our services in Nigeria and safety risks for our operations and our people. Our operations in Nigeria are subject to the Nigerian Content Development Act 2010, which requires that oil and gas contracts be awarded to a company that is seen or perceived to have more \"local content\" than a \"Foreign\" competitor. Additionally, the Nigerian Content Development Act allows the monitoring board to penalize companies that do not meet these local content requirements up to 5% of the value of the contract. In addition, the passage of the Nigerian Petroleum Industry Bill could lead to further uncertainty in demand in the region. Future unrest or legislation in Nigeria or our other operating regions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in those regions. We cannot predict whether any of these events will continue to occur in Nigeria or occur elsewhere in the future.. We also have a joint venture operating in Sakhalin that may be negatively impacted by any further changes to current sanctions against Russia.. 20. Table of Contents. We are highly dependent upon the level of activity in the North Sea and to a lesser extent the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which are mature exploration and production regions.. In fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 62%, 58% and 58%, respectively, of our gross revenue was derived from industrial aviation services provided to oil and gas clients operating in the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are mature exploration and production regions that have undergone substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and gas properties in these regions have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality (including projected costs permitting economic development, given anticipated hydrocarbon prices) could be more difficult to identify. The ability of our clients to produce sufficient quantities to support the costs of exploration in different basins could impact the level of future activity in these regions. Generally, the production from these drilled oil and gas properties is declining. In the future, production may decline to the point that such properties are no longer economic to operate, in which case, our services with respect to such properties will no longer be needed. Oil and gas companies may not identify sufficient additional drilling sites to replace those that become depleted. In addition, the U.S. government's exercise of authority under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended, to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases together with the U.K. government's exercise of authority could adversely impact exploration and production activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the U.K. North Sea, respectively.. If activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in either the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or the North Sea materially declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot predict the levels of activity in these areas.. We are exposed to credit risk.. We are exposed to credit risk on our financial investments, which depends on the ability of our counterparties to fulfill their obligations to us. We manage credit risk by entering into arrangements with established counterparties and through the establishment of credit policies and limits, which are applied in the selection of counterparties.. Credit risk on financial instruments arises from the potential for counterparties to default on their contractual obligations and is limited to those contracts on which we would incur a loss in replacing the instrument. We monitor our concentration risk with counterparties on an ongoing basis. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure for financial assets.. Credit risk arises on our trade receivables from the unexpected loss in cash and earnings when a client cannot meet its obligation to us or when the value of any security provided declines. To mitigate trade credit risk, we have developed credit policies that include the review, approval and monitoring of new clients, annual credit evaluations and credit limits. There can be no assurance that our risk mitigation strategies will be effective and that credit risk will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the majority of our customers are engaged in oil and gas production, exploration and development. For fiscal year 2018, we generated approximately 68% of our consolidated operating revenue from external clients from oil and gas operations. This concentration could impact our overall exposure to credit risk because changes in economic and industry conditions that adversely affect the oil and gas industry could affect the credit worthiness of many of our customers. We generally do not require letters of credit or other collateral to support our trade receivables. Accordingly, a continued or additional downturn in the economic condition of the oil and gas industry could adversely impact our ability to collect our receivables and thus impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to dispose of aircraft through sales into the aftermarket could adversely affect us.. The management of our global aircraft fleet involves a careful evaluation of the expected demand for our services across global markets, including the type of aircraft needed to meet this demand. As offshore oil and gas drilling and production globally moves to deeper water, more medium and large aircraft and newer technology aircraft may be required. During a downturn in the oil and gas industry or as older aircraft models come off of current contracts and are replaced by new aircraft, our management evaluates our future needs for these aircraft models and ultimately the ability to recover our remaining investments in these aircraft through sales into the aftermarket. We depreciate our aircraft over their expected useful life to the expected salvage value to be received for the aircraft at the end of that life. However, depending on the market for aircraft, we may record gains or losses on aircraft sales. In certain instances where a cash return can be made on newer aircraft in excess of the expected return available through the provision of our services, we may sell newer aircraft. The number of aircraft sales and the amount of gains and losses recorded on these sales can be unpredictable. In May 2016, a global competitor filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and announced its intention to reject leases resulting in the return of approximately 90 leased helicopters to lessors. This significant return of aircraft into an already oversupplied market could undermine our ability to dispose of our aircraft and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Changes in effective tax rates, taxation of our foreign subsidiaries or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, or the interpretation or application thereof.  From time to time, the U.S. Congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rate or the effective tax rates of our consolidated affiliates. We cannot determine whether, or in what form, legislation will ultimately be enacted or what the impact of any such legislation could have on our profitability. If these or other changes to tax laws are enacted, our profitability could be negatively impacted.. Our future effective tax rates could also be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the ultimate repatriation of earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the U.S., or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the potential examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where we file tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our goodwill, intangible assets or investments in unconsolidated affiliates become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We acquire other companies and intangible assets, and make investments in unconsolidated affiliates, and may not realize all of the economic benefit from those acquisitions or investments, which could cause an impairment of goodwill, intangibles or investments in unconsolidated affiliates. We review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, intangible assets or investments in unconsolidated affiliates may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in the industry in which we operate. For example, in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, we recognized losses of $8.7 million and $49.7 million, respectively, associated with the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles as a result of the market downturn. In fiscal year 2018, we recorded an $85.7 million impairment to our investment in Líder in Brazil. We may be required to record significant additional charges in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or investments in unconsolidated affiliates is determined, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Foreign exchange risks and controls may affect our financial position and results of operations.. Through our operations outside the U.S., we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks. As a result, a strong U.S. dollar may increase the local cost of our services that are provided under U.S. dollar-denominated contracts, which may reduce the demand for our services in foreign countries.. Because we maintain our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are vulnerable to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, such as the British pound sterling, Australian dollar, euro, Norwegian kroner and Nigerian naira. In preparing our financial statements, we must convert all non-U.S. dollar results to U.S. dollars. The effect of foreign currency translation impacts our results of operations as a result of the translation of non-U.S. dollar results and is reflected as a component of stockholders' investment, while the revaluation of certain monetary foreign currency transactions is credited or charged to income and reflected in other income (expense), net. Additionally, our earnings from unconsolidated affiliates, net of losses, are affected by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the reported results of our unconsolidated affiliates, primarily the impact of changes in the Brazilian real and the U.S. dollar exchange rate on results for our affiliate in Brazil. Changes in exchange rates could cause significant changes in our financial position and results of operations in the future.. We operate in countries with foreign exchange controls including Brazil, Egypt, Nigeria, Russia and Turkmenistan. These controls may limit our ability to repatriate funds from our international operations and unconsolidated affiliates or otherwise convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. These limitations could adversely affect our ability to access cash from these operations.. See further discussion of foreign exchange risks and controls under Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. 22. Table of Contents. Our dependence on a small number of helicopter manufacturers and lessors poses a significant risk to our business and prospects, including when we seek to grow our business.. We contract with a small number of manufacturers and lessors for most of our aircraft expansion, replacement and leasing needs. If any of the manufacturers face production delays due to, for example, natural disasters, labor strikes or availability of skilled labor, we may experience a significant delay in the delivery of previously ordered aircraft. During these periods, we may not be able to obtain orders for additional aircraft with acceptable pricing, delivery dates or other terms. Also, we have operating leases for many of our helicopters. The number of companies that provide leasing for helicopters is limited. If any of these leasing companies face financial setbacks, we may experience delays or restrictions in our ability to lease aircraft. Delivery delays or our inability to obtain acceptable aircraft orders or lease aircraft could adversely affect our revenue and profitability and could jeopardize our ability to meet the demands of our clients and grow our business. For example, our efforts to successfully integrate AW189 aircraft into service for the U.K. SAR contract have been delayed due to a product improvement plan with the aircraft. As a result, the acceptance of four AW189 aircraft was pushed to later dates. We continue to meet our contractual obligations under the U.K. SAR contract through the utilization of other aircraft. Additionally, lack of availability of new aircraft resulting from a backlog in orders could result in an increase in prices for certain types of new and used helicopters.. If any of the helicopter manufacturers we contract with, the government bodies that regulate them or other parties identify safety issues with helicopter models we currently operate or that we intend to acquire, we may be required to suspend flight operations, as was done with the H225 aircraft. If we are forced to suspend operations of helicopter models, our business, financial condition and results of operations during any period in which flight operations are suspended could be affected.. A shortfall in availability of aircraft components and parts required for maintenance and repairs of our helicopter and fixed wing aircraft and supplier cost increases could adversely affect us.. In connection with the required maintenance and repairs performed on our aircraft in order for them to stay fully operational and available for use in our operations, we rely on a few key vendors for the supply and overhaul of components fitted to our aircraft. These vendors have historically worked at or near full capacity supporting the aircraft production lines and the maintenance requirements of various government and civilian aircraft operators that may also operate at or near capacity in certain industries, including operators such as us who support the energy industry. Such conditions can result in backlogs in manufacturing schedules and some parts being in limited supply from time to time, which could have an adverse impact upon our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft. To the extent that these suppliers also supply parts for aircraft used by governments in military operations, parts delivery for our aircraft may be delayed. Our inability to perform timely maintenance and repairs can result in our aircraft being underutilized, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, our operations in remote locations, where delivery of these components and parts could take a significant period of time, may also impact our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft. While every effort is made to mitigate such impact, this may pose a risk to our operating results. Additionally, supplier cost increases for critical aircraft components and parts also pose a risk to our operating results. Cost increases for contracted services are passed through to our clients through rate increases where possible, including as a component of contract escalation charges. However, as certain of our contracts are long-term in nature, cost increases may not be adjusted in our contract rates until the contracts are up for renewal.. Additionally, operation of a global fleet of aircraft requires us to carry spare parts inventory across our global operations to perform scheduled and unscheduled maintenance activity.  Changes in the aircraft model types of our fleet or the timing of exits from model types can result in inventory levels in excess of those required to support the fleet over the remaining life of the fleet.  Additionally, other parts may become obsolete or dormant given changes in use of parts on aircraft and maintenance needs.  These fleet changes or other external factors can result in impairment of inventory balances where we expect that excess, dormant or obsolete inventory will not recover its carrying value through sales to third parties or disposal.. 23. Table of Contents. Our future growth depends significantly on the level of international oil and gas activity and our ability to operate outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.. Our future growth will depend significantly on our ability to expand into markets outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Expansion of our business depends on our ability to operate in these other regions.. Expansion of our business outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be adversely affected by:. • local regulations restricting foreign ownership of helicopter operators;. • requirements to award contracts to local operators; and. • the number and location of new drilling concessions granted by foreign governments.. We cannot predict the restrictions or requirements that may be imposed in the countries in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to operate or retain contracts in markets outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, our operations outside of the North Sea and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may not grow, and our future business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us.. Loss of the services of key management personnel at our corporate and regional headquarters without being able to attract personnel of equal ability could have a material adverse effect upon us. Further, the Transportation Code in the U.S. and other statutes require our President and two-thirds of our board of directors and other managing officers be U.S. citizens. Our failure to attract and retain qualified executive personnel or for such executive personnel to work well together or as effective leaders in their respective areas of responsibility could have a material adverse effect on our current business and future growth.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics and other highly-trained personnel is an important factor in determining our future success. For example, many of our clients require pilots with very high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly-trained personnel is competitive and may become more competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such personnel. Some of our pilots, mechanics and other personnel, as well as those of our competitors, are members of military reserves who have been, or could be, called to active duty. If significant numbers of such personnel are called to active duty, it could reduce the supply of such workers and likely increase our labor costs. Additionally, the addition of new aircraft types to our fleet or a sudden change in demand for a specific aircraft type, as happened with the Sikorsky S-92 aircraft type in response to the H225 grounding, may require us to retain additional pilots, mechanics and other flight-related personnel.. A number of personnel departed the company during the current oil and gas industry downturn, and we may be unable to take advantage of current opportunities with our reduced workforce. We also may be unable to timely replace such personnel when the industry emerges from the current downturn. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our current business and future growth.. Labor problems could adversely affect us.. Certain of our employees in the U.K., Norway, Nigeria, the U.S. and Australia (collectively, about 54% of our employees) are represented under collective bargaining or union agreements with 86% of these employees being represented by collective bargaining agreements and/or unions that have expired or will expire in one year. Disputes over the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with the unions that represent our employees under these agreements could result in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. Periodically, certain groups of our employees who are not covered under a collective bargaining agreement consider entering into such an agreement. Further, if our unionized workers engage in an extended strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees elect to become unionized, existing labor agreements are renegotiated, or future labor agreements contain terms that are unfavorable to us, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Employees\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report for further discussion on the status of collective bargaining or union agreements.. 24. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to weather-related and seasonal fluctuations.. Our operations can be impaired by harsh weather conditions. Poor visibility, high wind, heavy precipitation, sand storms and volcanic ash can affect the operation of helicopters and fixed wing aircraft and result in a reduced number of flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours, and a substantial portion of our direct cost is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of harsh weather can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, severe weather patterns, including those resulting from climate change, could affect the operation of helicopters and fixed wing aircraft and result in a reduced number of flight hours, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, particularly in the North Sea and Canada. While some of our helicopters are equipped to fly at night, we generally do not do so. In addition, drilling activity in the North Sea and Canada is lower during the winter months than the rest of the year. Anticipation of harsh weather during this period causes many oil and gas companies to limit activity during the winter months. Consequently, flight hours are generally lower during these periods, typically resulting in a reduction in operating revenue during those months. Accordingly, our reduced ability to operate in harsh weather conditions and darkness may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Harmattan, a dry and dusty West African trade wind, blows in Nigeria between the end of December and the middle of February. The heavy amount of dust in the air can severely limit visibility and block the sun for several days, comparable to a heavy fog. We are unable to operate aircraft during these harsh conditions. Consequently, flight hours may be lower during these periods resulting in reduced operating revenue, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the months of December through March typically have more days of harsh weather conditions than the other months of the year. Heavy fog during those months often limits visibility and flight activity. In addition, in the Gulf of Mexico, June through November is tropical storm and hurricane season, and in Australia, November through April is cyclone season. When a weather event is about to enter or begins developing in these regions, helicopter flight activity may increase because of evacuations of offshore workers. However, during such an event, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm. In addition, as a significant portion of our facilities are located along the coast of these regions, extreme weather may cause substantial damage to our property in these locations, including possibly aircraft. Additionally, we incur costs in evacuating our aircraft, personnel and equipment prior to tropical storms, hurricanes and cyclones.. Failure to develop or implement new technologies could affect our results of operations.. Many of the aircraft that we operate are characterized by changing technology, introductions and enhancements of models of aircraft and services and shifting client demands, including technology preferences. Our future growth and financial performance will depend in part upon our ability to develop, market and integrate new services and to accommodate the latest technological advances and client preferences. In addition, the introduction of new technologies or services that compete with our services could result in our revenue decreasing over time. If we are unable to upgrade our operations or fleet with the latest technological advances in a timely manner, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be negatively impacted.. Our business is increasingly dependent upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to capture knowledge of our business, and to communicate within our company and with clients, suppliers, partners and other stakeholders. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Our information technology systems are becoming increasingly integrated on a global basis, so damage, disruption or shutdown to the system could result in a more widespread impact. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions and transaction errors causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, a breach or failure of our information technology systems could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information, including the Personally Identifiable Information of our customers and employees, or violations of privacy or other laws. Any such breach could also lead to data loss, data corruption, communication interruption or other operational disruptions within our business. There is no assurance that we will not experience cyber attacks or security breaches and suffer losses in the future. As the methods of cyber attacks or security breaches continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any such event. Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber attacks and security breaches has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention. To the extent we are subject to increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend additional resources to meet such requirements.. Downgrades in our credit ratings could impact our ability to access capital and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Credit rating agencies continually review their ratings for the companies that they follow, including us. Credit rating agencies also evaluate the industries in which we and our affiliates operate as a whole and may change their credit rating for us based on their overall view of such industries. Both Moody's and Standard and Poor's downgraded our ratings during 2017 as a result of the oil industry downturn and its effects on our financial results. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding public debt securities will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any such ratings will not be further lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant.. A further downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things:. • limit our ability to access capital or otherwise adversely affect the availability of other new financing on favorable terms, if at all;. • result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur;. • cause us to refinance indebtedness with less favorable terms and conditions, which debt may require collateral and restrict, among other things, our ability to pay distributions or repurchase shares;. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities; and. • impair our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We operate in many international areas through entities that we do not control and are subject to government regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies in favor of domestic ownership.. We conduct many of our international operations through entities in which we have a noncontrolling investment or through strategic alliances with foreign partners. For example, we have acquired interests in, or in some cases have lease and service agreements with, entities that operate aircraft in Brazil, Canada and Egypt. We provide engineering and administrative support to certain of these entities. We derive significant amounts of lease revenue, service revenue, equity earnings and dividend income from these entities. In fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, we received approximately $67.1 million, $71.5 million and $78.9 million, respectively, of revenue from the provision of aircraft and other services to unconsolidated affiliates. As a result of not owning a majority interest or maintaining voting control of our unconsolidated affiliates, we do not have the ability to control their policies, management or affairs. The interests of persons who control these entities or partners may differ from ours and may cause such entities to take actions that are not in our best interest. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our partners in these entities, we could lose our ability to operate in these areas, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, an operational incident involving one of the entities over which we do not have operational control may nevertheless cause us reputational harm.. We are subject to governmental regulation that limits foreign ownership of aircraft companies in favor of domestic ownership. Based on regulations in various markets in which we operate, our aircraft may be subject to deregistration and we may lose our ability to operate within these countries if certain levels of local ownership are not maintained. Deregistration of our aircraft for any reason, including foreign ownership in excess of permitted levels, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations within these markets. We cannot assure you that there will be no changes in aviation laws, regulations or administrative requirements or the interpretations or applications thereof that could restrict or prohibit our ability to operate in certain regions. Any such restriction or prohibition on our ability to operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. \"Business  -  Governmental Regulation\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. 26. Table of Contents. We are subject to legal compliance risks.. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S., the U.K. and other countries in which we operate. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, import and export controls, sanctions against business dealings with certain countries and third parties, the payment of taxes, employment and labor relations, fair competition, data privacy protections, securities regulation, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may sometimes conflict. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that could result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in significant fines, damages, and other criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions or additional requirements on the conduct of our business and damage our reputation. Certain violations of law could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracts. We also incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global regulations. In some foreign countries, particularly those with developing economies, it may be customary for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws such as the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and the BCCA in Brazil, an anti-bribery law that is similar to the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, agents, and business partners will not take action in violation with our internal policies. Any such violation of the law or even internal policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Actions taken by agencies empowered to enforce governmental regulations could increase our costs and reduce our ability to operate successfully.. Our operations are regulated by governmental agencies in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These agencies have jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft and ground facilities. Statutes and regulations in these jurisdictions also subject us to various certification and reporting requirements and inspections regarding safety, training and general regulatory compliance. Other statutes and regulations in these jurisdictions regulate the offshore operations of our clients. The agencies empowered to enforce these statutes and regulations may suspend, curtail or require us to modify our operations. As previously reported, on April 29, 2016, another company's EC 225LP (also known as an H225LP) model helicopter crashed near Turøy outside of Bergen, Norway resulting in the European Aviation Safety Agency (the \"EASA\") issuing airworthiness directives prohibiting flight of H225LP and AS332L2 model aircraft. On July 20, 2017, the U.K. CAA and the Norway Aviation Agency (the \"NCAA\") issued safety and operational directives that detail the conditions to apply for the safe return to service of H225LP and AS332L2 model aircraft, where operators wish to do so. We continue not to operate for commercial purposes our 24 H225LP model aircraft. We are carefully evaluating next steps and demand for the H225LP model aircraft in our oil and gas and SAR operations worldwide, with the safety of passengers and crews remaining our highest priority. However, additional directive requirements in the future could present North Sea operators, including us, with significant operational challenges. A suspension or substantial curtailment of our operations for any prolonged period, and any substantial modification of our current operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See further discussion in Item 1. \"Business  -  Government Regulation\" and \"Business - Environmental\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are currently subject to and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of merit, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may face significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect a portion of our business operations or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations should we not prevail in certain matters.. Negative publicity may adversely impact us.. Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by us, our unconsolidated affiliates, or other companies in our industry, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or governmental investigations by regulators. Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs and divert resources. Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on our reputation, the morale of our employees and the willingness of passengers to fly on our aircraft and those of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Environmental regulations and liabilities may increase our costs and adversely affect us.. Our operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the treatment, storage, recycling and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. The nature of the business of operating and maintaining aircraft requires that we use, store and dispose of materials that are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental laws and regulations change frequently, which makes it impossible for us to predict their cost or impact on our future operations. Liabilities associated with environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be exposed to strict, joint and several liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Additionally, any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking action against us that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the:. • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • imposition of limitations on our operations; and. • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. Changes in environmental laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change concerns, could require us to devote capital or other resources to comply with those laws and regulations. These changes could also subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased fuel costs. In addition, such changes in laws or regulations could increase costs of compliance and doing business for our customers and thereby decrease the demand for our services. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and gas or limit drilling opportunities. For additional information see Item 1. \"Business  -  Environmental\" and Item 3. \"Legal Proceedings\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Regulations limit foreign ownership of our company, which could reduce the price of our common stock and cause owners of our common stock who are not U.S. persons to lose their voting rights.. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that persons or entities that are not \"citizens of the U.S.\" (as defined in the Federal Aviation Act) shall not collectively own or control more than 25% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (the \"Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage\") and that, if at any time persons that are not citizens of the U.S. nevertheless collectively own or control more than the Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage, the voting rights of shares owned by stockholders who are not citizens of the U.S. shall automatically be suspended, in the reverse chronological order of the dates and times of registry of such shares in our stock records, until the voting rights of a sufficient number thereof shall have been suspended so that the number of shares owned by stockholders who are not citizens of the U.S. that continue to have voting rights equals the greatest whole number that is less than or equal to the Permitted Foreign Ownership Percentage. Shares held by persons who are not citizens of the U.S. may lose their associated voting rights and be redeemed as a result of these provisions. These restrictions may have a material adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock because holders may be unable to transfer our common stock to persons who are not citizens of the U.S.. 28. Table of Contents. If we do not restrict the amount of foreign ownership of our common stock, we might lose our status as a U.S. air carrier and be prohibited from operating aircraft in the U.S., which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Since we hold the status of a U.S. air carrier under the regulations of both the U.S. Department of Transportation and the FAA and we engage in the operating and dry-leasing of aircraft in the U.S., we are subject to regulations pursuant to Title 49 of the Transportation Code (the \"Transportation Code\") and other statutes (collectively, the \"Aviation Acts\"). The Transportation Code requires that certificates to engage in air transportation be held only by citizens of the U.S. as that term is defined in the relevant section of the Transportation Code. That section requires: (i) that our President and two-thirds of our board of directors and other managing officers be U.S. citizens; (ii) that at least 75% of our outstanding voting stock be owned by U.S. citizens; and (iii) that we must be under the actual control of U.S. citizens. Further, our aircraft operating in the U.S. must generally be registered in the U.S. In order to register such aircraft under the Aviation Acts, we must be owned or controlled by U.S. citizens. Although our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions intended to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Aviation Acts, a failure to maintain compliance could result in the loss of our air carrier status prohibiting us from both operating as an air carrier and operating aircraft in the U.S. during any period in which we did not comply with these regulations, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Level of Indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, impair our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness and limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions.. We have substantial debt and substantial debt service requirements. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including long-term debt. In addition, on April 17, 2018, two of our subsidiaries entered into a new asset-backed revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Facility\"), which provides for commitments in an aggregate amount of $75 million, with a portion allocated to each borrower subsidiary, subject to an availability block of $15 million and a borrowing base calculated by reference to eligible accounts receivable. The maximum amount of the ABL Facility may be increased from time to time to a total of as much as $100 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, and any such increase would be allocated among the borrower subsidiaries. Although certain of our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions.. Our level of indebtedness may have important consequences to our business, including:. • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or to repurchase our debt upon a change of control;. • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including future borrowings under our ABL Facility;. • increasing the possibility of an event of default under certain covenants contained in our debt agreements; and. • limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or our business than our competitors with less debt.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that any such refinancing could be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained. Our inability to obtain such refinancing or financing could have a material adverse effect on us.. 29. Table of Contents. To service our indebtedness and lease obligations we will continue to require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest with respect to our indebtedness and lease obligations will depend on our ability to generate cash and on our financial results. Our ability to generate cash depends on the demand for our services, which is subject to levels of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production, general economic conditions, the ability of our affiliates to generate and distribute cash flows, and financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us under our ABL Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or lease obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs.. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict the manner in which we can operate our business.. The indentures governing our 6¼% Senior Notes due 2022 (the \"6¼% Senior Notes\") and our 8.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2023 (the \"8.75% Senior Secured Notes\") limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:. • borrow money or issue guarantees;. • pay dividends, redeem capital stock or make certain other restricted payments;. • incur liens to secure indebtedness;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • enter into transactions with our affiliates; or. • merge with another person or sell substantially all of our assets.. If we fail to comply with these and other covenants, we would be in default under our aggregate $200 million U.S. dollar equivalent loans from Lombard North Central Plc, a part of the Royal Bank of Scotland (the \"Lombard Debt\"), $200 million loan from the Macquarie Bank Limited (the \"Macquarie Debt\"), $230 million term loan credit agreement with PK AirFinance S.à r.l., as agent, and PK Transportation Finance Ireland Limited, as lender, and other lenders from time to time party thereto (the \"PK Air Debt\") and ABL Facility (together, our \"Credit Facilities\") and the indentures governing the 6¼% Senior Notes and the 8.75% Senior Secured Notes, and the principal and accrued interest on our outstanding indebtedness may become due and payable. In addition, our Credit Facilities and other debt agreements contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, similar and additional affirmative and negative covenants. Our Credit Facilities and the 8.75% Senior Secured Notes are secured by many of our assets (including most of our helicopters), and such assets may not be available to secure additional financings. As a result, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us.. Our debt agreements, including our Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the 6¼% Senior Notes, the 8.75% Senior Secured Notes and the 4½% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"4½% Convertible Senior Notes\"), also require us or certain of our subsidiaries, and our future credit facilities may require us or certain of our subsidiaries, to observe certain covenants. Our ability to observe certain of those covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to observe these covenants in the future. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our other debt agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facilities, any future credit facilities or the indentures governing the 6¼% Senior Notes, the 8.75% Senior Secured Notes and the 4½% Convertible Senior Notes, our creditors could elect to declare some or all amounts outstanding thereunder, including accrued interest or other obligations, to be immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay all of our indebtedness in full.. The agreements governing certain of our indebtedness, including our Credit Facilities, the indentures governing the 6 ¼% Senior Notes, the 8.75% Senior Secured Notes and the 4½% Convertible Senior Notes contain cross-default provisions. Under these provisions, a default under one agreement governing our indebtedness may constitute a default under our other debt agreements.. 30. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with covenants contained in certain of our lease agreements could limit our ability to maintain our leased aircraft fleet and could adversely affect our business.. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations related to operating leases, including aircraft leases. The terms of our aircraft lease agreements contain covenants that impose certain limitations on us. Such lease agreements limit, among other things, our ability to utilize aircraft in certain jurisdictions and/or to sublease aircraft, and may contain restrictions upon a change of control. A breach of lease covenants could result in an obligation to repay amounts outstanding under the lease, including rent. A breach of lease covenants with respect to the return of aircraft to our lessors could also result in an obligation to pay holdover rent beyond the scheduled lease expiration date for such aircraft and/or increased maintenance and repair costs. If any such event occurs, we may not be able to pay all amounts due under the leases or to refinance such leases on terms satisfactory to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
