[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Business Risks. Our revenues and available cash are subject to conditions affecting the retail sector. Our real property investments are influenced by the retail sector, which may be negatively impacted by increased unemployment, increased federal income and payroll taxes, increased health care costs, increased state and local taxes, increased real estate taxes, industry slowdowns, lack of availability of consumer credit, weak income growth, increased levels of consumer debt, poor housing market conditions, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, plant closings, and other factors. Similarly, local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the supply and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants may negatively impact our properties.. Given these economic conditions, we believe there is a risk that the sales at stores operating in our properties may be adversely affected, which may cause tenants to be unable to pay their rental obligations. Because substantially all of our income is derived from rentals of real property, our income and available cash would be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to meet their obligations.. We may be unable to lease space in our properties on favorable terms or at all. Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue to lease space in our properties, including vacant space and re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix, or leasing properties on economically favorable terms. Because approximately 6% to 12% of our total leases expire annually based on expiring GLA, we are continually focused on leasing our properties. Similarly, we are pursuing a strategy of replacing expiring short-term leases with long-term leases.. The bankruptcy or store closures of national tenants, which are tenants with chains of stores in many of our properties, may adversely affect our revenues. Our leases generally contain provisions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of the tenant. However, companies in the retail industry, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy, or from time to time, have voluntarily closed certain of their stores. We may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, the bankruptcy or closure of a national tenant may adversely affect our revenues. In addition, such closings may allow other tenants to modify their leases to terms that are less favorable for us, also adversely impacting our revenues. For example, certain of our lease agreements include a co-tenancy provision that allows the tenant to pay a reduced rent amount and, in certain instances, terminate the lease, if we fail to maintain certain occupancy levels or if specific anchor tenants are no longer at the property. Therefore, if occupancy or tenancy falls below certain thresholds, rents we are entitled to receive from our retail tenants could be reduced.. It may be difficult to sell real estate quickly, and transfer restrictions apply to some of our properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which may limit our ability to strategically change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. If revenues from a property decline but the related expenses do not, the income and cash available to us would be adversely affected. If it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of our mortgaged properties, we may not be able to obtain a release of the lien on the mortgaged property without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage on a property or inability to sell a property could adversely affect the level of cash available to us.. 5. Table of Contents. Our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties, and our inability to maintain a positive perception may adversely affect our revenues. We are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. If retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options such as the Internet to be more convenient or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected.. We develop, expand and acquire properties and these activities are subject to risks due to economic factors. Capital investment to expand or develop properties is anticipated to be an ongoing part of our strategy. In connection with such projects, we will be subject to various risks, which may result in lower than expected returns or a loss. These risks include the following:. • we may not have sufficient capital to proceed with planned expansion or development activities;. • construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates;. • we may not be able to obtain zoning, occupancy or other required governmental permits and authorizations;. • income from completed projects may not meet projections; and. • we may not be able to obtain anchor store, mortgage lender and property partner approvals, if applicable, for expansion or development activities.. Newly acquired properties may not perform as expected, such as not realizing expected occupancy and rental rates. In addition, we may have unexpected costs and may be unable to finance or refinance the new properties at acceptable terms. If an acquisition is not successful, we may have a loss on our investment in the property.. We are in a competitive business. There are numerous retail formats that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from retailers at other malls, lifestyle and power centers, outlet malls and other discount shopping centers, discount shopping clubs, Internet sales, catalog companies, and telemarketing. Competition of these types could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows.. We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, public and private financial institutions, and private institutional investors.. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate a large portfolio of high quality properties, maintain good relationships with our tenants and consumers, and remain well-capitalized. Our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate.. Some of our properties are subject to potential natural or other disasters. A number of our properties are located in areas that are subject to natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, flooding and earthquakes. Furthermore, many of our properties are located in coastal regions, and would therefore be affected by any future increases in sea levels. For example, certain of our properties are located in California and Hawaii or in other areas with a higher risk of natural disasters such as earthquakes or tsunamis.. Possible terrorist activity or other acts or threats of violence and threats to public safety could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats of terrorist attacks in the United States or other acts or threats of violence may result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Such a resulting decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties.. Terrorist activities or violence also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be reduced or cost more, which could increase our operating. 6. Table of Contents. expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by such attacks and threats of attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts and threats might erode business and consumer confidence and spending and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital.. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business. We use information technology, digital telecommunications and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. Many of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify to varying degrees certain security and service level standards. Although we and our service providers employ what we believe are adequate security, disaster recovery and other preventative and corrective measures, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired if these resources are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, intentional penetration or disruption of our information technology resources by a third party, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption or failure or error or poor product or vendor/developer selection (including a failure of security controls incorporated into or applied to such hardware or software), telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions (including the failure to follow our security protocols), or lost connectivity to our networked resources.. A significant and extended disruption in the functioning of these resources, including our primary website, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, tenants, revenues, result in the unintended and/or unauthorized public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal identifying and confidential information, and require us to incur significant expenses to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues, expenses that we may not be able to recover in whole or in any part from our service providers or responsible parties, or their or our insurers.. We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. Under various federal, state or local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held liable to third parties for bodily injury or property damage (investigation and/or clean-up costs) incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell, lease or borrow with respect to the real estate. Other federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling, the cost of which may be substantial for certain redevelopments, and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Federal, state and local laws also regulate the operation and removal of underground storage tanks. In connection with the ownership, operation and management of certain properties, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to these regulated substances or tanks or related claims.. Our properties have been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. Phase I environmental site assessments have not revealed any environmental conditions that would have a material adverse effect on our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. It is possible that these assessments do not reveal all potential environmental liabilities or that conditions have changed since the assessment was prepared (typically, at the time the property was purchased or developed).. However, the identification of new areas of contamination, a change in the extent or known scope of contamination or changes in cleanup requirements could result in significant costs to us.. Some potential losses are not insured. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorism, extended coverage and rental loss and environmental insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, and certain environmental conditions not discovered within the applicable policy period, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7. Table of Contents. Should the general price level increase in the future, this may have an impact on our consumers' disposable income. This may place pressure on retailer sales and margins as their costs rise and they may be unable to pass the costs along to the consumer, which in turn may affect their ability to pay rents and which could adversely impact our cash flow. Many but not all of our leases have fixed amounts for recoveries and if our costs rise we may not be able to pass these costs on to our tenants. Rising costs may also impact our ability to generate cash flows.. Inflation also poses a risk to us due to the possibility of future increases in interest rates. Such increases would result in higher interest rates on new fixed-rate debt and adversely impact us due to our outstanding variable rate debt. From time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to a portion of our variable-rate debt using interest rate cap, swap and treasury lock agreements. Such agreements allow us to replace variable-rate debt with fixed-rate debt. However, our efforts to manage risks associated with interest rate volatility may not be successful. Additionally, interest rate cap, swap and treasury-lock agreements expose us to additional risks, including that the counterparties to the agreements might not perform their obligations. We also might be subject to additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these agreements.. Deflation may have an impact on our ability to repay our debt. Deflation may put pressure on our tenants' profit margins or delay consumption and thus weaken tenant sales, which may reduce our tenants' ability to pay rents. Deflationary pressure on retailers may diminish their ability to rent our space and decrease our ability to re-lease the space on favorable terms to us.. Organizational Risks. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and will depend on our subsidiaries for cash. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. Our ability to make dividends or distributions in connection with being a REIT is highly dependent on the earnings of and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or distributions, and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations is further limited by our subsidiaries' ability to make such dividends, distributions or intercompany loans. Our subsidiaries' ability to pay any dividends or distributions to us are limited by their obligations to satisfy their own obligations to their creditors and preferred stockholders before making any dividends or distributions to us.. Delaware law imposes requirements that could further restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. We share control of some of our properties with other investors and may have conflicts of interest with those investors. For the Unconsolidated Properties (as defined in Note 1), we are required to make decisions with the other investors who have interests in the respective property or properties. For example, the approval of certain of the other investors is required with respect to operating budgets and refinancing, encumbering, expanding or selling any of these properties, to make distributions, as well as to bankruptcy decisions related to the Unconsolidated Properties and related joint ventures. We might not have the same interests as the other investors in relation to these transactions. Accordingly, we might not be able to favorably resolve any of these issues, or we might have to provide financial or other inducements to the other investors to obtain a favorable resolution.. In addition, various restrictive provisions and rights apply to sales or transfers of interests in our jointly owned properties. As such, we might be required to make decisions about buying or selling interests in a property or properties at a time that is not desirable.. Bankruptcy of our joint venture partners could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the jointly owned retail properties. The bankruptcy of one of the other investors in any of our jointly owned properties could materially and adversely affect the respective property or properties. Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we would be precluded from taking some actions affecting the estate of the other investor without prior court approval which would, in most cases, entail prior notice to other parties and a hearing. At a minimum, the requirement to obtain court approval may delay the actions we would or might want to take. If the relevant joint venture through which we have invested in a property has incurred recourse obligations, the discharge in bankruptcy of one of the other investors might result in our ultimate liability for a greater portion of those obligations than would otherwise be required.. We are impacted by tax-related obligations to some of our partners. We own certain properties through partnerships that have arrangements in place that protect the deferred tax situation of our existing third party limited partners. Violation of these arrangements could impose costs on us. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions such as financing, encumbering, expanding or selling these properties.. 8. Table of Contents. Several of our joint venture partners are tax-exempt. As such, they are taxable to the extent of their share of unrelated business taxable income generated from these jointly owned properties. As the manager of these joint ventures, we have obligations to avoid the creation of unrelated business taxable income at these properties. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions related to the financing of and revenue generation from these properties.. We provide financial support for a number of joint venture partners. We provide secured financing to some of our joint venture partners. As of December 31, 2017, we have provided venture partners loans of $384.5 million (of which $382.5 million is secured by the respective partnership interests). A default by a joint venture partner under their debt obligation may result in a loss.. We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT. We have elected to be treated as a REIT in connection with the filing of our tax return for 2010, retroactive to July 1, 2010. It is possible that we may not meet the conditions for continued qualification as a REIT and that the cost of maintaining REIT status might have a material impact on the Company. In addition, once an entity is qualified as a REIT, the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\") generally requires that such entity distribute at least 90% of its taxable ordinary income to stockholders and pay tax on or distribute 100% of its taxable capital gains. We expect to distribute 100% of our taxable capital gains and taxable ordinary income to stockholders annually. There can be no assurances as to the allocation between cash and common stock of our future dividends.. Due to certain investments made by us, our subsidiary REITs may reflect a significant amount of related party rent as non-qualifying income. While our charter protects our stockholders from causing us to have related party rent, actions that we undertake ourselves can cause us or certain of our partners to have related party rent. As a result, we may be restricted with respect to decisions relating to revenue generation at certain properties.. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and federal income tax. If any of our REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, such failure could result in our loss of REIT status. If we lose our REIT status, corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities that would otherwise receive dividends would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.. We believe that we are a domestically controlled qualified investment entity as defined by the Code. In making that determination, we make certain assumptions. For example, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act (PATH Act) permits a publicly traded REIT to treat all of its 5%-or-less stockholders as United States persons unless it has actual knowledge to the contrary. As a result, given that we do not believe that we have actual knowledge that any of our less than 5% stockholders are not United States persons, we treat all of our stockholders, other than non-United States persons that have publicly disclosed an ownership of greater than 5%, as United States persons. Further, we assume that any changes in ownership by stockholders with a greater that 5% ownership are promptly reported.  Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, actual facts may differ from the assumptions that we make, and if such facts are different to a significant enough degree, our status as a domestically controlled qualified investment entity could be impacted. Therefore, GGP is unable to give its stockholders any assurance that it is or will continue to be a domestically controlled qualified investment entity.. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect stockholders and our Company. While the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may significantly change. The long-term impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition and future business. 9. Table of Contents. plans. There can be no assurance that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and future business operations.. Future changes to tax laws may adversely affect the Company either directly through changes to the taxation of the REIT, its subsidiaries or its stockholders or indirectly through changes which adversely affect its tenants, i.e. pending legislation in Hawaii. These changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. Not all states automatically conform to changes in the Code. Some states use the legislative process to decide whether it is in their best interests to conform or not to various provisions of the Code. This could increase the complexity of our compliance efforts, increase compliance costs, and may subject us to additional taxes and audit risk.. An ownership limit, certain anti-takeover defenses and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations.. The ownership limit. In order to protect our REIT status, our certificate of incorporation provides the following three restrictions on transfer:. • No one person may own more than 9.9% of the outstanding number or value. This ensures we meet the REIT requirement that not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly by five or fewer \"individuals\" at any time during the last half of a taxable year.. • No person can acquire shares that would result in outstanding shares being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons. This ensures we meet the REIT requirement that there be at least 100 stockholders.. • No person can transfer shares that would cause us or our subsidiaries to constructively own 10% or more of the ownership interests in a tenant. This protects against having certain rent be treated as \"related party\" rent and thereby having such rent be non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT tests.. Our Board of Directors has the ability to provide a waiver from these ownership restrictions. Any attempt to own or transfer shares or any of our other shares of beneficial interest in violation of these restrictions may result in the transfer being automatically void. Our charter provides that shares in excess of the ownership limits will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a charitable beneficiary. As of November 11, 2017, Brookfield's ownership of the Company is 34.6%, which is stated in their Form 13D filed on the same date.. Selected provisions of our charter documents. Our charter authorizes the board of directors:. • to cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock;. • to classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; and. • to set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that we issue.. Selected provisions of our bylaws. Our amended and restated bylaws contain the following limitations:. • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent;. • restrictions on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting without 15% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and. • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings.. Selected provisions of Delaware law. 10. Table of Contents. We are a Delaware corporation, and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to us. In general, Section 203 prevents an \"interested stockholder\" (as defined below), from engaging in a \"business combination\" (as defined in the statute) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs:. • before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination;. • upon completion of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) stock held by directors who are also officers of our company and by employee stock plans that do not provide employees with the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; and. • following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder.. The statute defines \"interested stockholder\" as any person that is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is an affiliate or associate of us and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination.. Each item discussed above may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, even if a proposed transaction is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Further, these provisions may apply in instances where some stockholders consider a transaction beneficial to them. As a result, our stock price may be negatively affected by these provisions.. There is a risk of investor influence over our company that may be adverse to our best interests and those of our other stockholders. Brookfield owns, or manages on behalf of third parties, a significant portion of the shares of our common stock. Brookfield has entered into standstill agreements to limit their influence, the concentration of ownership of our outstanding equity held or managed by Brookfield may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without their support, or more likely with their support. The interests of Brookfield, any other substantial stockholder or any of their respective affiliates could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of the holders of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held or managed by Brookfield could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be favorable for us and the other stockholders. Brookfield may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We cannot assure you that the standstill agreements can fully protect against these risks.. Brookfield has the right to designate three directors of our Board of Directors as long as it owns 20% or greater of our outstanding shares as stated under the various agreements made during GGP's emergence from bankruptcy in 2010. As long as Brookfield owns directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, subject to the terms of the standstill agreements, it would be able to exert significant influence over us, including:. • the composition of our board of directors;. • direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers;. • the determination of incentive compensation, which may affect our ability to retain key employees;. • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations;. • our acquisition or disposition of assets;. • our financing decisions and our capital raising activities;. • the payment of dividends;. • conduct in regulatory and legal proceedings; and. • amendments to our certificate of incorporation.. Some of our directors are involved in other businesses including, without limitation, real estate activities and public and/or private investments and, therefore, may have competing or conflicting interests with us and our board of directors has adopted resolutions renouncing any interest or expectation in any such business opportunities. In addition, our relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield's obligation to present opportunities to us.. 11. Table of Contents. Certain of our directors have and may in the future have interests in other real estate business activities, and may have control or influence over these activities or may serve as investment advisors, directors or officers. These interests and activities, and any duties to third parties arising from such interests and activities, could divert the attention of such directors from our operations. Additionally, certain of our directors are engaged in investment and other activities in which they may learn of real estate and other related opportunities in their non-director capacities. Our Board of Directors has adopted resolutions applicable to our directors that expressly provide, as permitted by Section 1(17) of the DGCL, that our non-employee directors are not obligated to limit their interests or activities in their non-director capacities or to notify us of any opportunities that may arise in connection therewith, even if the opportunities are complementary to or in competition with our businesses. Accordingly, we have, and investors in our common stock should have, no expectation that we will be able to learn of or participate in such opportunities. Additionally, the relationship agreement with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. contains significant exclusions from Brookfield's obligations to present opportunities to us.. Liquidity Risks. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2017, we had $18.6 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding at our proportionate share including $5.6 billion of our share of unconsolidated debt and our Junior Subordinated Notes of $206.2 million. Our indebtedness may have important consequences to us and the value of our equity, including:. • limiting our ability to borrow significant additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes;. • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to service debt;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given the portion of our indebtedness which bears interest at variable rates;. • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and. • giving secured lenders the ability to foreclose on our assets.. Our debt contains restrictions and covenants which may limit our ability to enter into or obtain funding for certain transactions or operate our business. The terms of certain of our debt will require us to satisfy certain customary affirmative and negative covenants and to meet financial ratios and tests, including ratios and tests based on leverage, interest and fixed charge coverage and net worth, or to satisfy similar tests as a precondition to incurring additional debt. We entered into a revolving credit facility in April 2012 that subjects us to such covenants and restrictions. The revolving credit facility was amended in October 2015, and we may draw up to $1.5 billion under it, including the uncommitted accordion feature. In addition, certain of our indebtedness contains restrictions. The covenants and other restrictions under our debt agreements affect, among other things, our ability to:. • incur indebtedness;. • create liens on assets;. • sell assets;. • manage our cash flows;. • transfer assets to other subsidiaries;. • make capital expenditures;. • engage in mergers and acquisitions; and. • make distributions to equity holders, including holders of our common stock.. In addition, our debt contains certain terms which include restrictive operational and financial covenants and restrictions on the distribution of cash flows from properties serving as collateral for the debt. Fees and cash flow restrictions may affect our ability to fund our on-going operations from our operating cash flows and we may be limited in our operating and financial flexibility and, thus, may be limited in our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities.. 12. Table of Contents. We may not be able to refinance, extend or repay our consolidated debt or our portion of indebtedness of our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, our proportionate share of total debt, including the $206.2 million of Junior Subordinated Notes, aggregated $18.6 billion consisting of our consolidated debt, net of noncontrolling interest, of $13.0 billion combined with our share of the debt of our Unconsolidated Real Estate Affiliates (Note 5) of $5.6 billion. Of our proportionate share of total debt, $1.2 billion is recourse to the Company due to guarantees or other security provisions for the benefit of the note holder. There can be no assurance that we, or the joint venture, will be able to refinance or restructure this debt on acceptable terms or otherwise, or that operations of the properties or contributions by us and/or our partners will be sufficient to repay such loans. If we or the joint venture cannot service this debt, we or the joint venture may have to deed property back to the applicable lenders.. We may not be able to raise capital through financing activities. Substantially all of our assets are encumbered by property-level indebtedness; therefore, we may be limited in our ability to raise additional capital through property level or other financings. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital could be limited to refinancing existing secured mortgages before their maturity date which may result in yield maintenance or other prepayment penalties to the extent that the mortgage is not open for prepayment at par.. We may not be able to sell assets timely and at prices we believe are appropriate due to the illiquid nature of real estate. Our ability to sell our properties timely and for an attractive price may be limited. Limitations could be caused by the economic climate, which affects the value of our properties, and by the availability of credit, which could increase the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing. These factors may limit our ability to sell these properties at a price that exceeds the cost of our investment.. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. Refer to Item 7."
