[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment.. Deterioration in local economies or real estate market may adversely affect our business.. We primarily serve individuals and businesses located in the greater Boston metropolitan area, eastern Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. Our success is largely dependent on the economic conditions, including employment levels, population growth, income levels, savings trends and government policies, in those market areas. Weaker economic conditions caused by recession, unemployment, inflation, a decline in real estate values or other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to service their debt obligations, and could result in higher loan and lease losses and lower net income for us.. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally.. Weakness in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business. While in recent years there has been a gradual improvement in the U.S. economy, the outlook remains uncertain amid concerns about short- and long-term interest rates, debt and equity capital markets and financial market conditions generally. A deterioration of business and economic conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in loan delinquencies and default rates could adversely impact our loan charge-offs and provision for loan and lease losses. Deterioration or defaults made by issuers of the underlying collateral of our investment securities may cause additional credit-related other-than-temporary impairment charges to our income statement. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.. Changes to interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our consolidated results of operations depend, on a large part, on net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans, leases and securities, and (ii) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. As a result, our earnings and growth are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the FRB. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on us cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowances for loan losses. A decrease in interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which may serve to reduce net interest income if we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates.. 12. Table of Contents. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We and our banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Our banking subsidiaries are also subject to regulation and supervision by state banking regulators and the FRB. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FRB and the state banking regulators have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and our banking subsidiaries may conduct business and obtain financing.. As a highly regulated business, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, or supervisory guidance could affect in enforcement and other legal actions by federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See the \"Supervision and Regulation\" section of Item 1, \"Business.\". We are subject to capital and liquidity standards that require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.. We became subject to new capital requirements in 2015. These new standards, which now apply and will be fully phased-in over the next several years, force bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we were permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. The Company made this election.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against us.. From time to time we are named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. There is no assurance that litigation with private parties will not increase in the future. Actions against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm to us. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we could continue to experience a high level of litigation related to our businesses and operations.. Our businesses and operations are also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. These and other initiatives from federal and state officials may subject us to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to be required to restructure our operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, or higher operational costs, thereby reducing our revenue.. 13. Table of Contents. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. The financial services industry is subject to intense scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of federal and state regulations, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices and other consumer compliance matters, and compliance with anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act and Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations, and economic sanctions against certain foreign countries and nationals. Enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations; however, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. Failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on our business.. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses, our earnings may decrease.. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more loans or leases may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan or lease. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write off the loan or lease in whole or in part. In such situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan or lease through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan or lease exceeds the value of the assets acquired.. We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan and lease losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, the quality of the loan and lease portfolio as indicated by loan risk ratings, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of nonaccruing and criticized loans and leases. Management relies on its loan officers and credit quality reviews, its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan and lease losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans or leases, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses are necessary, additional expenses may be incurred.. Determining the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans and/or leases in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans and leases that are identified. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan and lease portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. Changes in economic conditions or individual business or personal circumstances affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we will need additional increases in its allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses may result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our loan and lease portfolios include commercial real estate mortgage loans and commercial loans and leases, which are generally riskier than other types of loans.. Our commercial real estate and commercial loan and lease portfolios currently comprise 80.8% of total loans and leases. Commercial loans and leases generally carry larger balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. Most of the commercial loans and leases are secured by borrower business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, these types of collateral are more difficult to monitor, harder to value, may depreciate more rapidly and may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Repayment of commercial loans and leases is largely dependent on the business and financial condition of borrowers. Business cash flows are dependent on the demand for the products and services offered by the borrower's business. Such demand may be reduced when economic conditions are weak or when the products and services offered are viewed as less valuable than those offered by competitors. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans and leases, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the financial services industry could make it difficult for us to sustain adequate profitability.. We face significant competition for loans, leases and deposits from other banks and financial institutions both within and beyond our local marketplace. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do and may offer products and services that we do not, or cannot, provide. There is also increased competition by out-of-market competitors through the internet. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.. Market changes may adversely affect demand for our services and impact results of operations.. Channels for servicing our customers are evolving rapidly, with less reliance on traditional branch facilities, more use of online and mobile banking, and increased demand for universal bankers and other relationship managers who can service multiples product lines. We compete with larger providers who are rapidly evolving their service channels and escalating the costs of evolving the service process. We have a process for evaluating the profitability of our branch system and other office and operational facilities. The identification of unprofitable operations and facilities can lead to restructuring charges and introduce the risk of disruptions to revenues and customer relationships.. Our securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on our results of operations.. Unrealized losses on investment securities result from changes in credit spreads and liquidity issues in the marketplace, along with changes in the credit profile of individual securities issuers. Under GAAP, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of our securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts' evaluations, our ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit-related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to our earnings. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. Potential downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition.. A possible future downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and a decline in the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affect the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. Such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. Among other things, a downgrade in the U.S. government's credit rating could adversely impact the value of our securities portfolio and may trigger requirements that the Company post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instruments would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on the business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our operations and future growth.. We and our banking subsidiaries must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. To manage liquidity, we draw upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our ability to manage liquidity will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. In addition, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships.  We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, other commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions and organizations.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase our cost of funding.. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. We compete with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase if we lose deposits and are forced to replace them with more expensive sources of funding, if clients shift their deposits into higher cost products or if we need to raise interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and net income.. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects.. We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of our relationships with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and incur related costs and expenses.. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent on capital distributions from our subsidiary banks, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions.. We are a legal entity that is separate and distinct from the Banks. Our revenue (on a parent company only basis) is derived primarily from dividends paid to us by the Banks. Our right, and consequently the right of our shareholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Banks through the payment of such dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Banks (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of ours in a creditor capacity may be recognized. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of our subsidiary banks and other factors, that applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If one or more of our subsidiary banks is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt or pay dividends on our common stock. Further, as a result of the capital conservation buffer requirement of the Final Capital Rule, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or service our debt could be restricted if we do not maintain a capital conservation buffer. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See Item 1, \"Business-Supervision. 16. Table of Contents. and Regulation-Dividend Restrictions\" and \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Capital Adequacy and Safety and Soundness-Regulatory Capital Requirements.\". We face continuing and growing security risks to our information base, including the information we maintain relating to our customers.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our business and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding customers. Our electronic communications and information systems infrastructure, as well as the systems infrastructures of the vendors we use to meet our data processing and communication needs, could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and we may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches in a timely manner. A failure or circumvention of our security systems could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cyber-security and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remain a priority. Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Any breach of our system security could result in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, significant regulatory costs, litigation exposure and other possible damages, loss or liability. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of available insurance coverage, if any, and would adversely affect our earnings. Also, any failure to prevent a security breach or to quickly and effectively deal with such a breach could negatively impact customer confidence, damaging our reputation and undermining our ability to attract and keep customers.. We may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability.. We invest significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in our stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. Our internal controls, procedures and policies may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain. 17. Table of Contents. assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified key employees, which could adversely affect our business prospects, including our competitive position and results of operations.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled individuals. There is significant competition for those individuals with the experience and skills required to conduct many of our business activities. We may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other external events could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining loan loss and litigation reserves, goodwill impairment and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. See the \"Critical Accounting Policies\" section in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting principles that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement, and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. Additionally, significant changes to accounting standards may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expense that will negatively impact our results of operations.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, which will be effective for the Company for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020. This standard, often referred to as \"CECL\" (reflecting a current expected credit loss model), will require companies to recognize an allowance for credit losses based on estimates of losses expected to be realized over the contractual lives of the loans. Under current U.S. GAAP, companies generally recognize credit losses only when it is probable that a loss has been incurred as of the balance sheet date. This new standard will require us to collect and review increased types and amounts of data for us to determine the appropriate. 18. Table of Contents. level of the allowance for loan losses, and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard on our consolidated financial statements.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. From time to time, local, state or federal tax authorities change tax laws and regulations, which may result in a decrease or increase to our net deferred tax assets. In December 2017, we recognized a write-down of $8.6 million in net deferred tax assets in connection with the adoption of the H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. Future capital offerings may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our banking subsidiaries' capital ratios fall below required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt, common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, and senior or subordinated notes. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Moreover, we cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets;. • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance;. • announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;. • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us;. • our past and future dividend practices;. • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility.. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.. Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us, even if a merge might be in the best interest of our stockholders.. There is no assurance when or even if the merger with First Commons Bank will be completed.. We have entered into the Merger Agreement pursuant to which First Commons Bank will merge with and into Brookline Bank with Brookline Bank as the surviving bank (the \"Merger\"). The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the Merger. Those conditions include:. 19. Table of Contents. • the receipt of required regulatory approvals;. • absence of orders prohibiting the completion of the merger; and. • the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements.. There can be no assurance that the parties will be able to satisfy the closing conditions or that closing conditions beyond their control will be satisfied or waived.   In addition, as in any transaction, it is possible that, among other things, restrictions on the combined operations of the two companies may be sought by governmental agencies as a condition to obtaining the required regulatory approvals. This may diminish the benefits of the merger to us or have an adverse effect on us following the merger and prevent us from achieving the expected benefits of the merger.. In addition, the parties to the Merger Agreement can agree at any time to terminate the Merger Agreement even after First Commons Bank's stockholders have provided their approval. The parties can also terminate the Merger Agreement under other specified circumstances. First Commons Bank may choose to terminate the merger agreement if the 10-day volume weighted average stock price of our common stock as reported on NASDAQ during the ten trading day period ending on the fifth trading day immediately preceding the closing date is less than $11.40 per share and our common stock underperforms the NASDAQ Bank Index by more than 20%. Any such termination would be subject to our right to increase the amount of our common stock and, if applicable, cash to be provided to First Commons Bank stockholders pursuant to the formula prescribed in the Merger Agreement.. We may be unable to successfully integrate First Commons Bank's operations.. The merger with First Commons Bank involves the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies' operations include:. • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds;. • integrating departments, systems, operating procedures and information technologies;. • combining different corporate cultures;. • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and. • retaining key employees.. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies' operations could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company.. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our business with the business of First Commons Bank. If we are unable to successfully integrate First Commons Bank, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. For example, we may fail to realize the anticipated increase in earnings and cost savings anticipated to be derived from the acquisition. In addition, as with regard to any Merger, a significant change in interest rates or economic conditions or decline in asset valuations may also cause us not to realize expected benefits and result in the merger not being as accretive as expected.. Unanticipated costs relating to the merger could reduce our future earnings per share.. We believe that we have reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating our operations with the operations of First Commons Bank, and the incremental costs of operating as a combined company. However, it is possible that we could incur unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, which could result in the merger not being as accretive as expected or having a dilutive effect on the combined company's earnings per share.. To the extent that we acquire other companies, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions.. We have acquired and will continue to consider the acquisition of other financial services companies. To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. Some of these risks include the following:. 20. Table of Contents. • The risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management's expectations;. • The risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses;. • The risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business;. • The risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and. • The risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience.. We may be required to write down goodwill and other acquisition-related identifiable intangible assets.. When we acquire a business, such as First Commons Bank, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $143.9 million. We expect to record approximately $20.0 million in additional goodwill in connection with the acquisition of First Commons Bank. Under current accounting guidance, if we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. We conduct an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. We conduct a quarterly review for indicators of impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Our management recently completed these reviews and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2017. We cannot provide assurance whether we will be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on stockholders' equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price."
