[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. Volatile macroeconomic and business conditions have and could continue to impact our business negatively.. The global financial markets recently have undergone and may continue to experience significant volatility and disruption. The depth and sustainability of the current economic recovery is uncertain and additional macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our customers and suppliers have been directly affected by the economic downturn and continue to face credit issues and could experience cash flow problems that have and could continue to give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our rail services. Adverse economic conditions could also affect our costs for insurance and our ability to acquire and maintain adequate insurance coverage for risks associated with the railroad business if insurance companies experience credit downgrades or bankruptcies.. Given the asset intensive nature of our business, a renewed economic downturn increases the risk of significant asset impairment charges since we are required to assess for potential impairment of non-current assets whenever events or changes in circumstances, including economic circumstances, indicate that the respective asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. This could limit our ability to sell our assets to the extent we need, or find it desirable, to do so. In addition, our railroads compete directly with other modes of transportation, including motor carriers, and ship, barge and pipeline operators. If these alternative methods of transportation become more cost-effective to our customers due to macroeconomic changes, or if legislation is passed providing materially greater opportunity for motor carriers with respect to size or weight restrictions, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Rising fuel costs could materially adversely affect our business.. Fuel costs were approximately 10%, 9% and 8% of our total operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by international, political and economic circumstances. If fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility were to arise for any reason, the resulting higher fuel prices would significantly increase our operating costs.. As part of our railroad operations, we frequently transport hazardous materials, the accidental release of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We are required to transport hazardous materials to the extent of our common carrier obligation. An accidental release of hazardous materials could result in significant loss of life and extensive property damage. The costs associated with an accidental release could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or liquidity.. Some of our employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages could materially adversely affect our operations.. Many of our employees are union-represented. Our union employees work under collective bargaining agreements with various labor organizations. Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these labor organizations could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If our union-represented employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs.. 11. Because we depend on Class I railroads and certain important customers for our operations, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected if our relationships with Class I railroads and certain important customers deteriorate.. The railroad industry in the United States and Canada is dominated by a small number of Class I railroads that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. Approximately 89% of our total carload volume in 2011 was derived from Class I traffic. Our ability to provide rail service to our customers depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with Class I railroads with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, car supply, switching, interchange, fuel surcharges and trackage rights (an arrangement where the company that owns the line retains all rights, but allows another company to operate over certain sections of its track). In addition, loss of customers or service interruptions or delays by our Class I interchange partners relating to customers who ship over our track may decrease our revenue. Class I railroads are also sources of potential acquisition candidates as they continue to divest branch lines. Failure to maintain good relationships may materially adversely affect our ability to negotiate acquisitions of branch lines.. Although our operations served approximately 1,500 customers in 2011, freight revenue from our 10 largest freight revenue customers accounted for approximately 18% of our total freight revenues in 2011. Substantial reduction in business with or loss of important customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. If the track maintenance tax credit is not renewed by Congress past December 31, 2011, we will not be able to earn or assign credits for track maintenance, after such date.. We were eligible to receive tax credits for certain track maintenance expenditures under Section 45G of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the \"Code\"), through December 31, 2011. Pursuant to Section 45G, these credits are assignable under limited circumstances. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we received approximately $22.6, $22.3 and $22.4 million from the assignment of these credits, respectively. Section 45G expired on December 31, 2011, and unless Section 45G is renewed, we will no longer be able to earn or assign credits for track maintenance expenditures. There can be no assurance that legislation renewing the availability of the Section 45G tax credit will be enacted.. We are subject to the risks of doing business in Canada, including changes in Canadian economic conditions, exchange rate fluctuations and other economic uncertainties.. We currently have railroad operations in Canada. The risks of doing business in Canada include:. <U+0095>    adverse changes in the economy of Canada;. <U+0095>    exchange rate fluctuations; and. <U+0095>    economic uncertainties including, among others, risk of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements or arrangements with governmental authorities, exportation and transportation tariffs, foreign exchange restrictions and changes in taxation structure.. Unfavorable developments related to these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We are subject to environmental and other governmental regulation of our railroad operations, which could impose significant costs.. The failure to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Our railroad and real estate ownership is subject to foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, fines and penalties as a result of any allegations, even if such allegations are unsubstantiated, or findings to the effect that we have violated or are strictly liable under these laws or regulations. We may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination.. We are also subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of foreign, federal, state and local regulatory authorities with respect to our railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, maintenance and other matters. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.. 12. Additionally, future changes in foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing railroad rates, operations and practices and the ability to grant non-freight occupancies and derive real estate revenues on governmental grants of rail corridors could likewise have a material adverse effect on us.. Severe weather and natural disasters could disrupt normal business operations, which could result in increased costs and liabilities and decreases in revenues.. Severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires and floods, may cause significant business interruptions and result in increased costs, increased liabilities and decreased revenue.. We face possible catastrophic loss and liability and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover our damages or damages to others.. The operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property loss. In the course of our operations, spills or other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political developments, as well as labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs. Collisions, cargo leaks or explosions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage, particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated areas. Additionally, our operations may be affected from time to time by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. The occurrence of a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We maintain insurance that is consistent with industry practice against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and business interruption due to natural disaster. However, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover our damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our insurers may become insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in the future. Even with insurance, if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, we may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption to operations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We may face liability for casualty losses which are not covered by insurance.. We have obtained insurance coverage for losses sustained by our railroads arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other incidents. Personal injury claims made by our railroad employees are subject to the FELA rather than state workers' compensation laws. Currently, we are responsible for the first $2.0 million of expenditures per each incident under our general liability insurance policy and $1.5 million of expenditures per each incident under our property insurance policy. Severe accidents or personal injuries could cause our liability to exceed our insurance limits which might have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our annual insurance limits are $250 million and $25 million on liability and property, respectively. In addition, adverse events directly and indirectly attributable to us, including such things as derailments, accidents, discharge of toxic or hazardous materials, or other like occurrences in the industry, can be expected to result in increases in our insurance premiums and/or our self-insured retentions and could result in limitations to the coverage under our existing policies.. We depend on our management and key personnel, and we may not be able to operate or grow our business effectively if we lose the services of our management or key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future.. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the continued services and performance of our current management and other key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. The loss of key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. The loss of any key personnel requires the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could materially adversely affect our ability to operate or grow our business.. 13. Future acts of terrorism or war, as well as the threat of acts of terrorism or war, may cause significant disruptions in our business operations.. Terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, as well as the more recent attacks on the transportation systems in Madrid, London and Moscow, any government response to those types of attacks and war or risk of war may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our rail lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act or acts of terror. Such acts could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Such effects could be magnified where releases of hazardous materials are involved. Any act of terror, retaliatory strike, sustained military campaign or war or risk of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition by causing or resulting in unpredictable operating or financial conditions, including disruptions of rail lines, volatility or sustained increase of fuel prices, fuel shortages, general economic decline and instability or weakness of financial markets which could restrict our ability to raise capital. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of our coverage could increase dramatically, or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future.. The availability of qualified personnel and an aging workforce may materially adversely affect our operations.. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the availability of qualified personnel, particularly train crew members, could negatively affect our service levels. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate these risks and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or liquidity.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may materially adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $575.7 million, which represented approximately 45.8% of our total capitalization. Our substantial amount of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including:. <U+0095>    increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. <U+0095>    requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. <U+0095>    restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+0095>    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. <U+0095>    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. The revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes contains a number of restrictions and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders, grant liens on our assets, sell assets, enter into new or different lines of business, enter into transactions with our affiliates, merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets, and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Credit market conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain future financing or to refinance our outstanding indebtedness.. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the indenture governing our senior secured notes could result in a default under the indenture, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, holders of our senior secured notes could proceed against the collateral securing the notes, which includes nearly all of our assets. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, complying. 14. with these restrictions and covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to our stockholders and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business plan and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions and covenants.. Our inability to acquire businesses or integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of acquisitions could have materially adverse consequences to our business.. We expect to grow through acquisitions. Evaluating acquisition targets gives rise to additional costs related to legal, financial, operating and industry due diligence. Acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs and, to the extent financed with debt, additional interest costs. We may not be able to manage or integrate the acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of acquiring and integrating businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others:. <U+0095>    loss of key employees or customers;. <U+0095>    possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems;. <U+0095>    failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided;. <U+0095>    integrating employees of rail lines acquired from other entities into our regional railroad culture;. <U+0095>    failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and. <U+0095>    the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so.. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. The expected revenue enhancements and cost savings are based on analyses completed by members of our management. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer plants and factories served, operating costs and competitive factors, most of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the businesses, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. Goodwill is recorded at fair value, at the time of an acquisition and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends, and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to management's judgment in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill recoverability. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. While not determined to have goodwill impairment during 2011, certain of our reporting units have limited numbers of customers and therefore are at risk of impairment in future periods. We will continue to monitor the operations and customers at these reporting units and will evaluate for potential goodwill impairment if impairment indicators arise. If no impairment indicators arise, we will evaluate these reporting units during our annual assessment.. 15. A sustained decline in our market capitalization relative to our book value may result in, or be indicative of, a goodwill impairment charge in the future. We utilize market capitalization in corroborating our assessment of the fair value of our reporting units.. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges could negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had $211.8 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 13.3% of total assets.. Future compensation expense may materially adversely affect our net income.. The compensation that we pay to attract and retain our employees and key personnel reduces our net income. The compensation paid to our employees for 2011 is not necessarily indicative of how we will compensate our employees in the future. Any increase in compensation will further reduce our net income. For example, we have adopted an equity incentive plan that permits the issuance of share options, share appreciation rights, restricted shares, deferred shares, performance shares, unrestricted shares and other share-based awards to our employees. We may grant restricted shares and other share-based awards to our employees in the future as a recruiting and retention tool based on specific criteria determined by our board of directors (or the compensation committee of the board of directors).. The table below compares our net income to our total executive compensation costs (each in thousands):. Year Ended December 31, 2011      Year Ended December 31, 2010   Net Income    $ 36,868       $ 19,117    Executive Compensation Cost(1)    $ 6,572       $ 6,003. (1) Executive Compensation Cost is computed in the manner computed for purposes of the Summary Compensation Table for 2011 to be included in our 2012 proxy statement.. Adverse determinations of the Railroad Retirement Board may increase our employment costs.. The Railroad Retirement Board (the \"Board\") makes determinations as to whether railroad affiliated employers and their employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System. Adverse determinations by the Board could expose our administrative service and Atlas Railroad Construction employees to Railroad Retirement System coverage and increase our employment costs.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent minority stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest.. As of December 31, 2011, an entity wholly owned by certain private equity funds managed by an affiliate of Fortress (the \"Initial Fortress Stockholder\"), owns approximately 59.9% of our outstanding common stock. The Initial Fortress Stockholder owns shares sufficient for the majority vote over all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws; and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other stockholders. The interests of the Initial Fortress Stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of RailAmerica. Also, the Initial Fortress Stockholder may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other stockholders or materially adversely affect us or our other stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant stockholders.. 16. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends.. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends.. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to grow our business. Our revolving credit facility and our senior secured notes indenture restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock, and we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that restrict or limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock.. Certain provisions of our stockholders agreement, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of RailAmerica, which could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of our stockholders agreement, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors or the Initial Fortress Stockholder. These include:. <U+0095>    provisions providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. <U+0095>    provisions providing for the removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders (as defined below) own at least 40% of our issued and outstanding common stock, directors may be removed with or without cause with the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote);. <U+0095>    provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws preventing stockholders from calling special meetings of our stockholders (provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock, any stockholders that collectively beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock may call special meetings of our stockholders);. <U+0095>    provisions providing advance notice requirements by stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings;. <U+0095>    provisions in our stockholders agreement providing certain rights to the Fortress Stockholders with respect to the designation of directors for nomination and election to our board of directors, including the ability to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors for so long as the Fortress Stockholders continue to hold at least 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock;. <U+0095>    no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election;. <U+0095>    provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that only permit action by our stockholders outside a meeting by unanimous written consent, provided, however, that for so long as the Fortress Stockholders beneficially own at least 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock, our stockholders may act without a meeting by written consent of a majority of our stockholders; and. <U+0095>    provisions providing our board of directors the authority to cause the issuance of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Nothing in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation precludes future issuances without stockholder approval of the authorized but unissued shares of our common stock.. 17. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Initial Fortress Stockholder, our management and/or our board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is favorable to stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium.. Certain of our stockholders have the right to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as we do.. The Initial Fortress Stockholder and certain other affiliates of Fortress and permitted transferees, (collectively, the \"Fortress Stockholders\") have other investments and business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the Fortress Stockholders have the right, and have no duty to abstain from exercising such right, to engage or invest in the same or similar businesses as we do, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If the Fortress Stockholders or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates.. In the event that any of our directors or officers who is also a director, officer or employee of any of the Fortress Stockholders acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person's capacity as a director or officer of RailAmerica and such person acts in good faith, then to the fullest extent permitted by law such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person's fiduciary duties owed to us and is not liable to us, if the Fortress Stockholder pursues or acquires the corporate opportunity or if the Fortress Stockholder does not present the corporate opportunity to us.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. <U+0095>    variations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. <U+0095>    changes in our earnings estimates (if provided) or differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. <U+0095>    the contents of published research reports about us or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. <U+0095>    litigation and governmental investigations;. <U+0095>    changes in market valuations of similar companies;. <U+0095>    speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry;. <U+0095>    increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of our shares to seek higher returns;. 18. <U+0095>    announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. <U+0095>    changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the railroad industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and. <U+0095>    general market, political and economic conditions, including any such conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our customers are located.. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to obtain financing or to further increase our capital resources by issuing additional shares of our common stock or offering debt or additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or shares of preferred stock. Issuing additional shares of our common stock or other additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Upon liquidation, holders of such debt securities and preferred shares, if issued, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference with respect to liquidating distributions or a preference with respect to dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their share holdings in us.. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets.. As of December 31, 2011, there were 50,605,440 shares of common stock outstanding. All issued and outstanding shares of our common stock are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Approximately 59.9% of our outstanding common stock is held by the Initial Fortress Stockholder and can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144.. Pursuant to our stockholders agreement, the Initial Fortress Stockholder and certain of its affiliates and permitted third-party transferees have the right to require us, in certain instances, at our expense, to file registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, covering public resales of their approximately 30,350,000 shares of our common stock. Upon the effectiveness of such a registration statement, all shares covered by the registration statement will be freely transferable and the resulting resale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other shareholdings.. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of 349,394,560 shares of common stock authorized but unissued with approximately 3.7 million shares reserved for issuance under our incentive plans. We may issue all of these shares of common stock without any action or approval by our stockholders, subject to certain exceptions. We also intend to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities and may issue common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Any common stock issued in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, the exercise of outstanding stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by holders of our common stock.. 19. We cannot assure you that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value and stock repurchases, if any, could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash reserves.. On August 30, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase program. Under the program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $25.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time at prevailing prices in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased, if any, will depend on a variety of factors including the price and availability of the Company's shares, trading volume and general market conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, repurchases under our stock repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness. We had $4.6 million remaining for the repurchase of outstanding shares of common stock under this program as of December 31, 2011.. Risks Related to Taxation. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryovers and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.. Section 382 and 383 of the Code contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. As a result of transactions that have taken place in the past with respect to our common stock, our use of our $48 million of federal net operating losses, our $95 million of tax credits and certain built-in losses is subject to annual taxable income limitations. As a result, we may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal income tax liability.. In addition, it is possible that future transactions (including issuances of new shares of our common stock and sales of shares of our common stock) will cause us to undergo one or more additional ownership changes. In that event, we generally would not be able to use our pre-change loss or credit carryovers or certain built-in losses prior to such ownership change to offset future taxable income in excess of the annual limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, and those attributes already subject to limitations (as a result of our prior ownership changes) may be subject to more stringent limitations.. Gain recognized by Non-U.S. Holders on the sale or other disposition of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax.. We expect to be treated as a \"United States real property holding corporation\" under section 897(c) of the Code (\"USRPHC\"). Generally, stock issued by a corporation that has been a USRPHC at any time during the preceding five years (or a Non-U.S. Holder's holding period for such securities, if shorter) is treated as a United States real property interest (\"USRPI\"), and gain recognized by a Non-U.S. Holder on the sale or other disposition of stock is subject to regular U.S. federal income tax, as if such gain were effectively connected with the conduct by such holder of a U.S. trade or business. Shares of our common stock will not be treated as USRPIs in the hands of a Non-U.S. Holder provided that: (i) our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market, and (ii) such Non-U.S. Holder has not owned or been deemed to own (directly or under certain constructive ownership rules) more than 5% of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or other taxable disposition. No assurance can be given that our common stock will continue to be regularly traded on an established securities market in the future. If gain recognized by a Non-U.S. Holder from the sale or other disposition of our common stock is subject to regular federal income tax under these rules and our common stock is not regularly traded on an established securities market at such time, the transferee of such common stock may be required to deduct and withhold a tax equal to 10% of the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, unless certain exceptions apply. Any tax withheld may be credited against the U.S. federal income tax owed by the Non-U.S. Holder for the year in which the sale or other disposition occurs.. 20"
