[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Set forth below is a discussion of certain risks affecting our business.  Any adverse effects arising from the realization of any of the risks discussed, including our financial condition and results of operation, may, and likely will, adversely affect many aspects of our business.. We face numerous risks associated with the real estate industry that could adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs.. As a real estate company, we are subject to various changes in real estate conditions, and any negative trends in such real estate conditions may adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. These conditions include:. • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation, government deficits, unemployment rates and decreased consumer confidence particularly in markets in which we have a high concentration of properties;. • increases in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing or to buy or sell properties on favorable terms or at all;. • the inability of residents and tenants to pay rent;. • the existence and quality of the competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors' properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record;. • increased operating costs, including increased real property taxes, maintenance, insurance and utility costs (including increased prices for fossil fuels);. • weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses;. • oversupply of apartments or single-family housing or a reduction in demand for real estate in the markets in which our properties are located;. • a favorable interest rate environment that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our multi-family properties deciding to purchase homes instead of renting;. • changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, laws and/or governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes; and. •  rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs.. Moreover, other factors may adversely affect our results of operations, including potential liability under environmental and other laws and other unforeseen events, many of which are discussed elsewhere in the following risk factors. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs.. Our acquisition, development and property improvement activities are limited by the funds available to us.. Our ability to acquire additional multi-family properties, develop new properties and improve the properties in our portfolio is limited by the funds available to us and our ability to obtain, on acceptable terms, equity contributions from joint. 12. Table of Contents. venture partners and mortgage debt from lenders. At September 30, 2017, we had approximately $12.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $6.2 million designated as restricted cash for improvements at 15 multi-family properties. Our multi-family acquisition and improvement activities are constrained by funds available to us which will limit growth in our revenues and operating results.. If interest rates increase or credit markets tighten, it may be more difficult for us to refinance our mortgage debt at favorable rates as it matures or to secure financing for acquisitions.. The following table sets forth, as of September 30, 2017, scheduled principal (excluding amortization) mortgage payments due at maturity on the mortgages on the properties we own and the weighted average interest rate thereon (dollars in thousands):Year   Principal Payments Due at Maturity   Weighted Average Interest Rate 2018   $ 29,000     3.73 % 2019 (1)   53,426     3.86   2020   55,071     3.22   2021   14,001     4.29   2022   32,072     4.40   2023 and thereafter   446,134     4.19       $ 629,704     4.07 %. _______________________. (1) Includes $8,750 related to the Waverly Place Apartments' mortgage.  This property was sold in October 2017.. Increases in interest rates, or reduced access to credit markets due,  among other things, to more stringent lending requirements or our high level of leverage, may make it difficult for us to refinance our mortgage debt as it matures or limit the availability of mortgage debt, thereby limiting our acquisition and/or refinancing activities. Even in the event that we are able to secure mortgage debt on, or otherwise refinance our mortgage debt, due to increased costs associated with securing financing and other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to refinance the entire mortgage debt as it matures or be subject to unfavorable terms (such as higher loan fees, interest rates and periodic payments) if we do refinance the mortgage debt. Either of these results could reduce operating cash flow and earnings, which may adversely affect the investment goals of our stockholders.. Though interest rates have been at historically low levels the past several years, they have been increasing recently and may continue to increase.  If we are required to refinance mortgage debt that matures over the next several years at higher interest rates than such mortgage debt currently bears, our operating cash flow may be significantly reduced.. We are not currently required to pay any dividends to maintain our status as a REIT.. We are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which we refer to as the Code.   Because current tax laws allow us to offset our net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs ($15.8 million at December 31, 2016 and, after giving effect to our operations and properly sales effected from January 1, 2017 through November 30, 2017, an estimated $7 million to $11 million at November 30, 2017), against our Federal taxable income until the NOLs are used or expire, we are not currently required (and have not been required since 2010) to pay a dividend to maintain our REIT status.  See note 11 to our consolidated financial statements.  Though we were not required to do so to qualify as a REIT, on each of September 12,  2017 and December 5, 2017, we declared dividends of $0.18 per share. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends in the future.  If we do not continue to pay  cash dividends, the price of our common stock may decline.. We may not be able to compete with competitors, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we possess.. We compete with many third parties engaged in the ownership and operation of multi-family properties, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private investors, investment and pension funds and other entities. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Larger and more established competitors enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, enhanced operating efficiencies and more extensive networks providing greater and more favorable access to capital, financing and tax credit allocations and more. 13. Table of Contents. favorable acquisition opportunities. Larger multi-family property operators have the ability and capacity to acquire a greater number of higher quality properties at more favorable locations and on more favorable terms and conditions.. We may incur impairment charges in 2018.. We evaluate on a quarterly basis our real estate portfolios for indicators of impairment. Impairment charges reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of the decline in the value of real estate assets we own. These charges and provisions may be required in the future as a result of factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in the economic environment and market conditions affecting the value of real property assets or natural or man-made disasters. If we are required to take impairment charges, our results of operations will be adversely impacted.. We may need to make significant capital improvements and incur deferred maintenance costs with respect to our multi-family properties and may not have sufficient funds for such purposes.. Our multi-family properties face competition from newer, and updated properties. At September 30, 2017 the weighted average age (based on the number of units) of our multi-family properties is approximately 20 years. To remain competitive and increase occupancy at these properties and/or make them attractive to potential tenants or purchasers, we may have to make significant capital improvements and/or incur deferred maintenance costs with respect to these properties. At September 30, 2017, $6.2 million, which is reflected as restricted cash on our consolidated balance sheet, has been earmarked for improvements at specific properties and may not be used for other properties. The cost of future improvements and deferred maintenance is unknown and the amounts earmarked for specific properties may be insufficient to effectuate needed improvements.  Our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected if we are required to expend significant funds (other than funds earmarked for such purposes) to repair or improve our properties.. Our transactions with affiliated entities involve conflicts of interest.. Entities affiliated with us and with certain of our executive officers provide services to us and on our behalf. These transactions raise the possibility that we may not receive terms as favorable as those that we would receive if the transactions were entered into with unaffiliated entities.. Senior management and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success may depend on our ability to retain them.. We depend on the services of Jeffrey A. Gould, our president and chief executive officer, and other members of senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. Although Jeffrey A. Gould devotes substantially all of his business time to our affairs, he devotes a limited amount of his business time to entities affiliated with us. In addition to Jeffrey A. Gould, only two other executive officers, Mitchell Gould, our executive vice president, and George Zweier, a vice president and our chief financial officer, devote all or substantially all of their business time to us.  Many of our executives (i) provide Services (see Item 1 \"Business-Our Structure\") to us and/or (ii) share their services on a part-time basis with entities affiliated with us and located in the same executive offices pursuant to a shared services agreement. We rely on part-time executive officers to provide certain services to us, including legal and certain accounting services, since we do not employ full-time executive officers to handle these services. If the shared services agreement is terminated or the executives performing Services are unwilling to continue to do so, we will have to obtain such services from other sources or hire employees to perform them. We may not be able to replace these services or hire such employees in a timely manner or on terms, including cost and level of expertise, that are equivalent to or better than those we receive pursuant to the Services and the shared services agreement.. In addition, in the future we may need to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key personnel, both on a full-time and part-time basis. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could impair our ability to carry out our business and our investment strategies.. We do not carry key man life insurance on members of our senior management.. We could be negatively impacted by changes in our relationship with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, changes in the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and by changes in government support for multi-family housing.. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been a major source of financing for multi-family real estate in the United States and we have used loan programs sponsored by these agencies to finance many of our acquisitions of multi-family properties. There has been ongoing discussion by the government with regard to the long term structure and viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could result in adjustments to guidelines for their loan products.  Should these agencies have their mandates changed or reduced, lose key personnel, be disbanded or reorganized by the government or otherwise discontinue. 14. Table of Contents. providing liquidity for the multi-family sector, our ability to obtain financing through loan programs sponsored by the agencies could be negatively impacted.  In addition, changes in our relationships with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the lenders that participate in these loan programs, with respect to our existing mortgage financing could impact our ability to obtain comparable financing for new acquisitions or refinancing for our existing multi-family real estate investments.  Should our access to financing provided through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan programs be reduced or impaired, it would significantly reduce our access to debt capital and/or increase borrowing costs and could significantly limit our ability to acquire properties on acceptable terms and reduce the values to be realized upon property sales.. Most of our multi-family properties are located in a limited number of markets, which makes us susceptible to adverse developments in such markets.. In addition to general, national and regional conditions, the operating performance of our multi-family residential properties is impacted by the economic conditions, including economic conditions of the specific markets in which our properties are concentrated. At September 30, 2017, approximately 31%, 14%, 10% and 10% of our estimated 2018 revenues from multi-family properties are attributable to properties located in Texas, Florida, Georgia and Missouri, respectively. Accordingly, adverse developments in such markets, including economic developments or natural or man-made disasters,  could adversely impact the operations of these properties and therefore our operating results and cash flow. The concentration of our properties in a limited number of markets exposes us to risks of adverse developments which are greater than the risks of owning properties with a more geographically diverse portfolio.. Our revenues are significantly influenced by demand for multi-family properties generally, and a decrease in such demand will likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.. Our current portfolio is focused predominately on multi-family properties, and we expect that going forward we will continue to  focus predominately on the acquisition, disposition and operation of such properties. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry, and a decrease in the demand for multi-family properties would likely have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio.. We  are subject to certain limitations associated with selling multi-family properties, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility.. Our ability to sell properties and the terms (including sales price and the timing of the sale) at which such properties may be sold may be limited by various factors and conditions, including factors and conditions over which we have limited or no control. These factors and conditions include:. • the agreement of our joint venture partner to sell a property;. • adverse market conditions, including the limited availability of mortgage debt required by a buyer to acquire a property or increased interest rates;. •the need to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold; and. • federal tax laws that may limit our ability to profit on the sale of properties that we have owned for less than two years.. The foregoing factors and conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities.. The failure of third party property management companies to properly manage our properties or obtain sufficient insurance coverage could adversely impact our results of operations.. We and our joint venture partners rely on third party property management companies to manage our properties. These management companies are responsible for, among other things, leasing and marketing rental units, selecting tenants (including an evaluation of the creditworthiness of tenants), collecting rent, paying operating expenses, maintaining the property and obtaining insurance coverage for the properties they manage. If these property management companies do not perform their duties properly or we or our joint venture partners do not effectively supervise the activities of these managers, the occupancy rates and rental rates at the properties managed by such property managers may decline and the expenses at such properties may increase. At September 30, 2017, one property manager and its affiliates manage eight properties, a second property manager and its affiliates manage seven properties and 13 other property managers manage five or fewer properties.  The loss of our property managers, and in particular, the managers that manage multiple properties, could result in a decrease in occupancy. 15. Table of Contents. rates, rental rates or both or an increase in expenses.   Further, property managers are also responsible for obtaining insurance coverage with respect to the properties they manage, which coverage is often obtained pursuant to blanket policies covering many properties in which we have no interest. Losses at properties managed by our property managers but in which we have no interest could reduce significantly the insurance coverage available at our properties managed by these property managers.  Finally, some of the management companies are owned by our joint venture partners or their affiliates. The termination of a management company may require the approval of the mortgagee, our joint venture partner or both. If we are unable to terminate an underperforming  property manager on a timely basis, our occupancy and rental rates may decrease and our expenses may increase.. Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our tenants or increase or maintain rents.. Our multi-family properties compete with numerous housing alternatives, including other multi-family and single-family rental homes, as well as owner occupied single and multi-family homes. Our ability to retain tenants and increase or maintain rents or occupancy levels could be adversely affected by the alternative housing in a particular area and, due to declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership, the increasing affordability of owner occupied single and multi-family homes.. Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our operating results.. We intend to continue to develop and redevelop multi-family properties.  These activities may be exposed to the following risks:. • we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in exploring those opportunities;. • occupancy rates and rents at development properties may fail to meet our original expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing properties;. • we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of development opportunities;. • we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor or other costs;. • we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a development project on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues;. • we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed development of a property, which may cause us to delay or abandon a development opportunity; and. • we may be unable to refinance with favorable terms, or at all, any construction or other financing obtained for a development property, which may cause us to sell the property on less favorable terms or surrender the property to the lender.. If we are unable to address effectively these and other risks associated with development projects, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely effected.. Risks involved in conducting real estate activity through joint ventures.. We have in the past and intend in the future to continue to  acquire properties through joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe that circumstances warrant the use of such structure. Joint venture investments involve risks not otherwise present when acquiring real estate directly, including the possibility that:. • our joint venture partner might become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise refuse or be unable to meet their obligations to us or the venture (including their obligation to make capital contributions or property distributions when due);. • we may incur liabilities as a result of action taken by our joint venture partner;. 16. Table of Contents. • our joint venture partner may not perform its property oversight responsibilities;. • our joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale or refinancing of properties held in the joint venture or the timing of the termination or liquidation of the joint venture;. • our joint venture partners obtain blanket property casualty and business interruption insurance insuring properties we own jointly and other properties in which we have no ownership interest and as as a result, claims or losses with respect to properties owned by our joint venture partners but in which we have no interest could significantly reduce or eliminate the insurance available to properties in which we have an interest;. • our joint venture partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests, including actions that may make it more difficult to maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • our joint venture partner might engage in unlawful or fraudulent conduct with respect to our jointly owned properties or other properties in which they have an ownership interest;. • our joint venture partner may trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction;. • disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and divert management's attention from operating our business;. • disagreements with our joint venture partners with respect to property management (including with respect to whether a property should be sold, refinanced, or improved) could result in an impasse resulting in the inability to operate the property effectively; and. • our joint venture partners may have other competing real estate interests in the markets in which our properties are located that could influence the partners to take actions favoring their properties to the detriment of the jointly owned properties.. Seven of our multi-family property joint ventures are owned with one joint venture partner or its affiliates, four of our multi-family property joint ventures are owned with a second joint venture partner or its affiliates and four of our multi-family property joint ventures are owned with a third partner. We may be adversely effected if we are unable to maintain a satisfactory working relationship with either of these joint venture partners or if either partner becomes financially distressed.. Compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to maximize profits.. We must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our common stock, to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. We may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Accordingly, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. To qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of such issuer. In addition, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer, other than a qualified REIT security. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of the portion of our assets in excess of such amounts within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. This requirement could cause us to dispose of assets for consideration of less than their true value and could lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Because real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to dispose of properties needed.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to reconfigure our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. Further, even if we are able to sell properties, we may be unable to reinvest the proceeds of such sales in opportunities that are as favorable as the properties sold.  Our inability to reconfigure our portfolio to profitably reinvest the proceeds of property sales promptly could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected if we or any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended (the \"1940 Act\").. We conduct our operations so that neither we, nor any of our subsidiaries is required to register as investment companies under the 1940 Act.  If we or any of our subsidiaries is required to register as an investment company but fail to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in certain business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such entity.  In addition, the contracts of such entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of the entity and liquidate its business.. We depend on our subsidiaries for cash flow and will be adversely impacted if these subsidiaries are prohibited from distributing cash to us.. We conduct, and intend to conduct, all our business operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our only source of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations is distributions from our subsidiaries of their net earnings and cash flows. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us that will enable us to fund our operations. Each of our subsidiaries is or will be a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, may limit our ability to obtain cash from such entities. In addition, because we operate through our subsidiaries, your claims as stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be able to satisfy your claims as stockholders only after all our and our subsidiaries' liabilities and obligations have been paid in full.. Liabilities relating to environmental matters may impact the value of our properties.. We may be subject to environmental liabilities arising from the ownership of properties. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.. The presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect our ability to finance or sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results and assets may be negatively affected if our insurance coverage is insufficient to compensate us for  casualty events occurring at our properties.. Our multi-family properties, including the properties owned by the joint ventures in which we are members, carry all risk property insurance covering the property and improvements thereto for the cost of replacement in the event of a casualty. Though we maintain insurance coverage, such coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses sustained as a result of a casualty because, among other things:. • the amount of insurance coverage maintained for any property may be insufficient to pay the full replacement cost following a casualty event,. •  the rent loss coverage under a policy may not extend for the full period of time that a tenant or tenants may be entitled to a rent abatement that is a result of, or that may be required to complete restoration following, a casualty event,. • certain types of losses, such as those arising from earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and terrorist attacks, may be uninsurable or may not be economically feasible to insure,. • changes in zoning, building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors may make it impossible or impracticable, to use insurance proceeds to replace damaged or destroyed improvements at a property,. • insurance coverage is part of blanket insurance policies in which losses on properties in which we have no ownership interest could reduce significantly or eliminate the coverage available on our properties, and. • the deductibles applicable to one or more buildings at a property may be greater than the losses sustained at such buildings.. 18. Table of Contents. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover losses sustained as a result of one or more casualty events, our operating results and the value of our portfolio will be adversely affected.. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the enactment of certain proposed tax reform measures, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws are proposed regularly. One proposal that is currently being considered by the U.S. Congress is the recently announced Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, as well as other proposals, if enacted, may result in a significant reform of the Code and include many changes, including significant changes to the taxation of business entities and the deductibility of certain expenses.  Moreover, legislative and regulatory changes may be more likely in the 115th Congress because the Presidency and Congress are controlled by the same political party and significant reform of the Code has been described publicly as a legislative priority. Additionally, the REIT rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which may result in revisions to regulations and interpretations in addition to statutory changes. If enacted, certain such changes could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. For example, certain proposals set forth in the Trump administration and House Republican tax plans could reduce the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT as compared with operating as a regular C-corporation. These proposals, among others, include: the lowering of income tax rates on individuals and corporations, which could ease the burden of double taxation on corporate dividends and make the single level of taxation on REIT distributions relatively less attractive; allowing the expensing of capital expenditures, which could have a similar impact and also could result in the bunching of taxable income and required distributions for REITs; and further limiting or eliminating the deductibility of interest expense, which could disrupt the real estate market and could (due to higher taxable income amounts) result in corresponding increases of required cash distributions by REITs, which could cause REITs in certain circumstances to have insufficient funds for operations or expansion. In addition, the repeal of the favorable tax treatment of like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the Code, which are routinely used by many REITS, might be included as a component of any such tax reform.. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued, nor is the long-term impact of proposed tax reforms on the real estate investment industry or REITs clear. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the effect of potential changes to the U.S. federal tax laws on an investment in our common stock.. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs.. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, be made accessible to disabled persons. Non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. From time-to-time claims may be asserted against us with respect to some of our properties under the Americans with Disabilities Act.  If, under the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations.. Breaches of information technology systems could materially harm our business and reputation.. We, our joint venture partners and the property managers managing our properties collect and retain on information technology systems certain financial, personal and other sensitive information provided by third parties, including tenants, vendors and employees. Such persons also rely on information technology systems for the collection and distribution of funds. There can be no assurance that we, our joint venture partners or property managers will be able to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information or the unauthorized distribution of funds. Any loss of this information or unauthorized distribution of funds as a result of a breach of information technology systems may result in loss of funds to which we are entitled, legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance.. 19. Table of Contents"
