[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes affect the Company are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones affecting the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any one or more of the following risks actually occur, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business strategy includes significant asset and liability growth. If we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected.. In 2010, the Board of Directors of the Bank approved a strategic plan that has resulted in significant growth in assets and liabilities. We intend to continue our growth. Specifically, we intend to continue to increase our commercial real estate loans, one-to-four family residential real estate loans and home equity lines of credit, while attracting favorably priced deposits. During 2012 we added our Shaw's Supermarket in-store branch in Waltham. In 2013 we opened two new in-store branches in Newton and Cambridge, and in 2014 we closed one of our existing branches due to its proximity to another branch. We have incurred substantial additional expenses due to the execution of our strategic plan, including salaries and occupancy expense related to new lending officers and related support staff, as well as marketing and infrastructure expenses. Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses. Unless we can continue to successfully execute our strategic plan, results of operations will be negatively affected by these increased costs.. The successful continuation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area. In addition, our ability to continue to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including continued favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality as we increase our commercial real estate loans, one-to-four family residential real estate loans, home equity lines of credit and commercial business loans. While we believe we have the management resources in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in achieving our business strategy goals.. Our branch network expansion strategy may negatively affect our financial performance.. During 2012 we added our Shaw's Supermarket in-store branch in Waltham. In 2013 we opened two new in-store branches in Newton and Cambridge, and in 2014 we closed one of our existing branches due to its proximity to another branch. We have three of our branches located within supermarkets and changes in the supermarkets' business could impact our branch operations within those supermarkets.. 35. Table of Contents. This strategy of opening new branches may not generate earnings, or may not generate earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to originate sufficient loans and generate sufficient deposits to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are considered fixed costs.. Because we intend to continue to emphasize our commercial real estate and multi-family loan originations, our credit risk will increase, and downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect our earnings.. We intend to continue originating commercial real estate and multi-family loans. At December 31, 2017, $642.1 million, or 27.9% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of multi-family loans and commercial real estate loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally have more risk than the one-to-four family residential real estate loans that we originate. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and multi-family loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate loans and multi-family loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate loan and multi-family loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase.. Our loan portfolio has greater risk than those of many savings banks due to the substantial number of indirect automobile loans in our portfolio.. We have a diversified loan portfolio with a substantial number of loans secured by collateral other than owner-occupied one-to-four-family residential real estate. Our loan portfolio includes a substantial number of indirect automobile loans, which are automobile loans assigned to us by participating automobile dealerships upon our review and approval of such loans. At December 31, 2017, our indirect automobile loans totaled $30.2 million, or 1.3% of our total loan portfolio. Automobile loans generally have greater risk of loss in the event of default than one to four family residential mortgage loans due to the rapid depreciation of automobiles securing the loans. We face the risk that the collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit our ability to recover on such loans. Although we have suspended new originations due to unattractive yields, it remains difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio due to the recent origination of these loans. These loans may have delinquency or charge off levels above our estimates, which would adversely affect our future performance. In addition, if our losses on these loans increase, it may become necessary to increase our provision for loan losses, which would also adversely impact our future earnings.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems operated by us and third party service providers to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems, whether it is caused intentionally or unintentionally, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. We are exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial of service, hacking, ransomware attacks and identity theft.. The potential need to adapt to changes in information technology could adversely impact our operations and require increased capital spending. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting bank accounts and other customer information, could adversely impact our operations, damage its reputation and require increased capital spending. Our information technology infrastructure and systems may be vulnerable to cyber terrorism, computer viruses, system failures and other intentional or unintentional interference, negligence, fraud and other unauthorized attempts to access or interfere with these systems and proprietary information. Although we believe we have implemented and maintain reasonable security controls over proprietary information as well as information of our customers, stockholders and employees, a breach of these security controls may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could subject us to significant regulatory actions and fines, litigation, loss, third-party damages and other liabilities.. A portion of our one to four family residential mortgage loan portfolio is comprised of non-owner occupied properties, which increases the credit risk on this portion of our loan portfolio.. A significant portion of the housing stock in our primary lending market area is comprised of two-, three- and four-unit properties. At December 31, 2017, of the $1.33 billion of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans in our portfolio, $59.6 million, or 4.47% of this amount, were comprised of non-owner occupied properties. There is greater credit risk inherent in two-, three- and four-unit properties and especially in non-owner occupied properties, than in owner-occupied one-unit properties. These loans are similar to commercial real estate loans and multi-family loans, as the repayment of these loans may depend, in part, on the successful management of the property and/or the borrower's ability to lease the units of the property. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing these loans or the revenues derived from these properties, which could affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan.. Our home equity line of credit strategy exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values.. At December 31, 2017, $178.6 million, or 7.8%, of our total loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. As part of our strategic business plan, we intend to increase our home equity lines of credit over the next several years. We generally originate home equity lines of credit with loan-to-value ratios of up to 80% when combined with the principal balance of the existing first mortgage loan, although loan-to-value ratios may exceed 80% on a case-by-case basis. Declines in real estate values in our market area could cause some of our home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. In addition, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017, interest on home equity loans and lines of credit is only deductible if the proceeds are used to buy, build or substantially improve the taxpayer's home that secures the loan or line of credit. This change could adversely impact the level of originations and outstanding volumes of home equity lines of credit in the future.. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits.. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest and dividend income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest and dividend income is the difference between:. <U+0095>   the interest and dividend income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and. <U+0095>   the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. 37. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our loans are fixed-rate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans with terms of up to 30 years, 3/1, 5/1, 7/1 and 10/1 adjustable rate mortgage loans and 5/5 adjustable rate - 10 year maturity commercial real estate loans, and like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these funds at lower interest rates. At December 31, 2017 our interest rate risk analysis indicated that our base forecasted net interest income would decrease by 11.8% over the next twelve months if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. For additional discussion of how changes in current interest rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Management of Market Risk.\". Changes in interest rates also create reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining interest rate environment.. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. At December 31, 2017, $673.2 million, or 50.5% of our $1.33 billion total one-to-four family residential mortgage loans due after December 31, 2018 had adjustable rates of interest. If interest rates increase, the rates on these loans will, in turn, increase, thereby increasing the risk that borrowers will not be able to repay these loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Because a portion of the securities in our portfolio are classified as available for sale, a decline in the fair value of our securities could cause a decline in our reported equity and/or net income.. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of financial institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. We are subject to liquidity risk. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We require liquidity to meet our deposit and debt obligations as they come due. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally.. 38. Table of Contents. Factors that could reduce our access to liquidity sources include a downturn in the Massachusetts economy, difficult credit markets or adverse regulatory actions against us. Our access to deposits may also be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. In particular, a substantial majority of our liabilities are demand deposits, savings and interest bearing checking, which are payable on demand or upon several days' notice, while by comparison, a substantial portion of our assets are loans, which cannot be called or sold in the same time frame. We may not be able to replace maturing deposits and FHLB advances as necessary in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors sought to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may lose lower-cost funding sources.. Checking, savings, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of client deposits can decrease when clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If clients move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Changes in law, regulation or oversight may adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws, as well as supervision and examination by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, FDIC, Federal Reserve, SEC, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\"), and other regulatory bodies. Congress and federal agencies have significantly increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes, many parts of which are now in effect. The Federal Reserve has adopted regulations implementing the Basel III framework on bank capital adequacy, stress testing, and market liquidity risk in the U.S. These regulations affect our lending practices, deposits, capital structure, investment practices, operating activities and growth, among other things. Regulation of the financial services industry continues to undergo major changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. In addition, such changes could also subject us to additional costs and limit the types of financial services and products we may offer. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in civil or criminal sanctions by state and federal agencies, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of our banking charter, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The effects of such legislation and regulatory actions on us cannot be reliably determined at this time. See Item 1. Business  -  Supervision and Regulation for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.. In addition to new rules promulgated under the Dodd Frank Act, bank regulatory agencies have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance.. We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance. For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in our federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities. However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single-family residential real estate. These limitations include (1) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single-family residential mortgage loans, (2) the elimination of interest deductions for certain home equity loans, (3) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense and (4) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and the valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments.. 39. Table of Contents. In addition, these recent changes may also have a disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with higher than average residential home prices and high state and local taxes, like Massachusetts. If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease. The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to originate and sell loans could be restricted by recently adopted federal regulations.. The CFPB has issued a rule intended to clarify how lenders can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which holds lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage loan. Under the rule, loans that meet the \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. <U+0095>   excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. <U+0095>   interest-only payments;. <U+0095>   negative amortization; and. <U+0095>   terms of longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a loan must generally be made to a borrower whose total monthly debt-to-income ratio does not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify a borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain \"not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage.\" The regulatory agencies have issued a final rule to implement this requirement. The final rule provides that the definition of \"qualified residential mortgage\" includes loans that meet the definition of qualified mortgage issued by the CFPB.. These rules could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans, any of which could limit our growth or profitability.. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\"). The FinCEN has delegated examination authority for compliance by banks with the Bank Secrecy Act to the federal bank regulators. The rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions, including restrictions on conducting acquisitions or establishing new branches. The policies and procedures we have adopted that are designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations may not be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. The CFPB is in the process of reshaping the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of such laws against unfair, deceptive and abusive acts or practices.. Compliance with consumer financial laws may impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers.. 40. Table of Contents. The CFPB has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The prohibition on \"abusive\" acts or practices was created by the Dodd-Frank Act and did not previously exist in federal law. The meaning of the prohibition is being clarified each year by CFPB enforcement actions and opinions from courts and administrative proceedings. The CFPB has further issued a series of final rules to implement provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act related to mortgage origination and servicing that may increase the cost of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, which went into effect in January 2014. While it is difficult to quantify the increase in our regulatory compliance burden, we do believe that costs associated with regulatory compliance, including the need to hire additional compliance personnel, may continue to increase.. A worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow despite the Federal Reserve Board's unprecedented efforts to maintain low market interest rates and encourage economic growth. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate values and sales volumes or an increase in unemployment levels may result in greater loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming, criticized and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Our risk management process aims to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. We aim to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting mechanisms. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. The recent change in regulatory capital requirements may have an adverse impact on our future financial results.. In 2013, the FDIC and FRB approved new rules that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The final rule implemented the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new rules went into effect on January 1, 2015, although certain portions of the rule, including the capital conservation buffer, are being phased in over a period of several years. The application of more stringent capital requirements, including the phase in of the capital conservation buffer, could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as a prohibition on the payment of dividends or on the repurchase of shares if we were unable to comply with such requirements.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, particularly if our asset quality or earnings were to deteriorate significantly. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition.. 41. Table of Contents. Economic conditions and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and discount window of the Federal Reserve.. We cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of investors, debt purchasers, depositors of Belmont Savings Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Moreover, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect us.. In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, \"Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.\" The update changes the impairment model for most financial assets and sets forth a \"current expected credit loss\" (CECL) model which will require the Company to measure all expected credit losses for financial instruments held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable supportable forecasts. This method is forward-looking and will generally result in earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This replaces the existing incurred loss model and is applicable to the measurement of credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost and also applies to some off-balance sheet credit exposures. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this ASU may materially reduce retained earnings in the period of adoption.. Because most of our borrowers are located in Eastern Massachusetts, a downturn in the local economy, or a decline in local real estate values, could cause an increase in nonperforming loans or a decrease in loan demand, which would reduce our profits.. Our success depends primarily on general economic conditions in our market area in Eastern Massachusetts. Nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Continued weakness in our local economy and our local real estate markets could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Continued weakness in economic conditions also could result in reduced loan demand and a decline in loan originations, which could negatively affect our financial results.. 42. Table of Contents. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact results.. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of our existing senior management. The unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Strong competition for deposits and lending opportunities within our market areas, as well as competition from non-depository investment alternatives, may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, financial technology companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and to be profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected.. In addition, checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns, or if our customers seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs and reducing our profitability.. Changes in the programs offered by secondary market purchasers or our ability to qualify for their programs, or the loss of our ability to purchase mortgage loans through our correspondent bank relationships, may reduce our mortgage banking revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. We generate mortgage revenues from gains on the sale of single-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae and non-GSE investors. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Technological advances impact our business.. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers.. 43. Table of Contents. Negative publicity could damage our reputation and our business.. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Negative public opinion could also result from adverse news or publicity that impairs the reputation of the financial services industry generally.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
