[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. In evaluating our business, you should consider carefully the factors described below. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should also consider the cautionary statement regarding the use of forward-looking statements elsewhere in this Report.. Risks Relating to our Business. As a business operating in the financial services industry, our business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by weak economic conditions.. Our businesses and operations, which primarily consist of lending money to customers in the form of loans, borrowing money from customers in the form of deposits and investing in securities, are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. Although the United States economy, as a whole, has improved moderately over the past several years, the business environment in which we operate continues to be impacted by the effects of the most recent recession. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government, and future tax rates is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including global political hostilities and uncertainty over the stability of the euro currency, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder domestic economic growth. The current economic environment is characterized by interest rates at historically low levels, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our investment portfolio. All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the United States government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 22. Table of Contents. The geographic concentration of our business in the state of Louisiana and in Dallas imposes risks and may magnify the consequences of any regional or local economic downturn affecting our markets, including any downturn in the real estate sector.. We conduct our operations exclusively in the state of Louisiana and Dallas, Texas. As of December 31, 2017, the substantial majority of the loans in our loan portfolio were made to borrowers who live and/or conduct business in our markets and the substantial majority of our secured loans were secured by collateral located in our markets. Accordingly, we are exposed to risks associated with a lack of geographic diversification as any regional or local economic downturn that affects our markets, our existing or prospective borrowers, or property values in our markets may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our competitors whose operations are less geographically focused.. The economic conditions in our markets are highly dependent on the real estate sector as well as the technology, financial services, insurance, transportation, manufacturing and energy sectors. Any downturn or adverse development in these sectors, particularly the real estate and energy sectors in our markets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and future prospects. Any adverse economic developments, among other things, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of our loans.. We face significant competition to attract and retain customers, which could impair our growth, decrease our profitability or result in loss of market share.. We operate in the highly competitive banking industry and face significant competition for customers from bank and non-bank competitors, particularly regional and nationwide institutions, in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial services. Our competitors are generally larger and may have significantly more resources, greater name recognition, and more extensive and established branch networks or geographic footprints than we do. Because of their scale, many of these competitors can be more aggressive than we can on loan and deposit pricing. Also, many of our non-bank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. We expect competition to continue to intensify due to financial institution consolidation; legislative, regulatory and technological changes; and the emergence of alternative banking sources.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer satisfaction with our level of service;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to expand our market position;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry and general economic trends; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could reduce our profitability. Our failure to compete effectively in our primary markets could cause us to lose market share and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, and failure to successfully execute our business strategy could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success, including our ability to achieve our growth and profitability goals, is dependent on the ability of our management team to execute on our long-term business strategy, which requires them to, among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattract and retain experienced and talented bankers in each of our markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain adequate funding sources, including by continuing to attract stable, low-cost deposits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our operating efficiency and profitability;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timplement new technologies to enhance the client experience, keep pace with our competitors and improve efficiency;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattract and maintain commercial banking relationships with well-qualified businesses, real estate developers and investors with proven track records in our market areas;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattract sufficient loans that meet prudent credit standards, including in our commercial and industrial and owner-occupied commercial real estate loan categories;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain adequate liquidity and regulatory capital and comply with applicable federal and state banking regulations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain federal and state regulatory approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage our credit, interest rate and liquidity risk;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop new, and grow our existing, streams of noninterest income;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toversee the performance of third party service providers that provide material services to our business; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain expenses in line with their current projections.. Failure to achieve these strategic goals could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies and could negatively impact our business, growth prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations.. We rely heavily on our executive management team and other key employees, and an unexpected loss of their service could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends in large part on the performance of our key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management and other skilled employees. Competition for employees is intense, and the process of locating key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business plan may be lengthy. We may not be successful in retaining our key employees, and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our primary markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Our ability to attract and retain profitable bankers is critical to the success of our business strategy, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to retain and grow our loans, deposits and fee income depends upon the business generation capabilities, reputation and relationship management skills of our bankers. If we were to lose the services of any of our bankers, including profitable bankers employed by banks that we may acquire, to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our customers could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services.. Our growth strategy also relies on our ability to attract and retain additional profitable bankers. We may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining bankers of our desired caliber, including as a result of competition from other financial institutions. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Additionally, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development before we are able to determine whether a new banker will be profitable or effective. If we are unable to attract and retain profitable bankers, or if our bankers fail to meet our expectations in terms of customer relationships and profitability, we may be unable to execute our business strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately measure and limit our credit risk, which could lead to unexpected losses.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully measure and manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that the principal of, or interest on, a loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting a loan will be insufficient to cover our outstanding exposure. In addition, we are exposed to risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual loans and borrowers. The creditworthiness of a borrower is affected by many factors including local market conditions and general economic conditions. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, experiences material disruption, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral we hold may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require significant additional provisions for credit losses. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower’s ability both to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting our market for products and services and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property.. Our risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific industries and our credit approval, review and administrative practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio. In addition, many of our loans are made to small and midsized businesses that may be less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs, and may necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for credit losses, each of which could adversely affect our net income. As a result, our inability to successfully manage credit risk could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio exposes us to risks that may be greater than the risks related to our other mortgage loans.. Our loan portfolio includes owner-occupied and non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties, as well as real estate acquisition, construction and development loans. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $512.4 million, or 52.5% of our loan portfolio is secured by commercial real estate. These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. These loans expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be liquidated as easily as residential real estate because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our commercial real estate loan portfolio would require us to increase our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 25. Table of Contents. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing our real estate loans and result in loan and other losses.. Real estate values in many Louisiana markets have experienced periods of fluctuation over the last five years, and the market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $669.9 million, or 68.7%, of our total loans was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, and could result in losses that adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity in our market areas could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan, which could result in losses on such loans. Such declines and losses could have adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral and own the underlying real estate, subjecting us to the costs and potential risks associated with the ownership of the real property.. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we would be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. As of December 31, 2017, we held approximately $227,000 in OREO. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to general or local economic conditions, environmental cleanup liability, assessments, interest rates, real estate tax rates, operating expenses of the mortgaged properties, ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties, zoning laws, governmental and regulatory rules, and natural disasters. Our inability to manage the amount of costs or size of the risks associated with the ownership of real estate, or writedowns in the value of OREO, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A large portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial loans secured by receivables, inventory, equipment or other commercial collateral, the deterioration in value of which could expose us to credit losses and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $254.4 million, or 26.1%, of our total loans were commercial loans to businesses. In general, these loans are collateralized by general business assets, including, among other things, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment and most are backed by a personal guaranty of the borrower or principal. These commercial loans are typically larger in amount than loans to individuals and, therefore, have the potential for larger losses on a single loan basis. Additionally, the repayment of commercial loans is subject to the ongoing business operations of the borrower. The collateral securing such loans generally includes movable property, such as equipment and inventory, which may decline in value more rapidly than we anticipate exposing us to increased credit risk. In addition, a portion of our customer base, including customers in the energy and real estate business, may be exposed to volatile businesses or industries which are sensitive to commodity prices or market fluctuations, such as energy prices. Accordingly, negative changes in commodity prices and real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of the collateral securing these loans. Significant adverse changes in the economy or local market conditions in which our commercial lending customers operate could cause rapid declines in loan collectability and the values associated with general business assets resulting in inadequate collateral coverage that may expose us to credit losses and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Our portfolio contains a number of large loans to certain borrowers, and deterioration in the financial condition of these large loans could have a significant adverse impact on our asset quality.. Our growth over the past several years has been partially attributable to our ability to originate and retain relatively large loans given our asset size. As of December 31, 2017, our average loan size was approximately $388,000. Further, as of December 31, 2017, our 20 largest borrowing relationships ranged from approximately $9.7 million to $27.4 million (including unfunded commitments) and averaged approximately $12.7 million in total commitments and $8.5 million in principal balance, respectively. Along with other risks inherent in our loans, such as the deterioration of the underlying businesses or property securing these loans, the higher average size of our loans presents a risk to our lending operations. Because we have a large average loan size, if only a few of our largest borrowers become unable to repay their loan obligations as a result of economic or market conditions or personal circumstances, our nonperforming loans and our provision for loan losses could increase significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s judgment of probable losses and risks inherent in our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $8.8 million, which represents approximately 0.90% of our total loans held for investment. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of general economic conditions, diversification and seasoning of the loan portfolio, historic loss experience, identified credit problems, delinquency levels and adequacy of collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is inherently highly subjective and requires us to make significant estimates of and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Inaccurate management assumptions, deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification or deterioration of additional problem loans, acquisition of problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their periodic examination, review our methodology for calculating, and the adequacy of, our allowance for loan losses and may direct us to make additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. Further, if actual charge-offs in future periods exceed the amounts allocated to the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions for loan losses to restore the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Finally, the measure of our allowance for loan losses is dependent on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards. The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently issued a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will become applicable to us on January 1, 2020, though we may choose to adopt CECL on January 1, 2019, or may be encouraged to by our regulators. CECL will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date. Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes. Accordingly, the CECL model could require financial institutions like the Bank to increase their allowances for loan losses. Moreover, the CECL model likely would create more volatility in our level of allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. The small-to-midsized businesses that we lend to may have fewer resources to weather adverse business developments, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan, and such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We focus our business development and marketing strategy primarily on small-to-midsized businesses. Small-to-midsized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small-to-midsized business often depends on the management skills, talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could have an adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay its loan. If general economic conditions negatively impact the markets in which we operate and small-to-midsized businesses are adversely affected or our borrowers are otherwise harmed by adverse business developments, this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The borrowing needs of our customers may increase, especially during a challenging economic environment, which could result in increased borrowing against our contractual obligations to extend credit.. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our customers under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. Because of the credit profile of our customers, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is not reflected on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2017, we had $256.9 million in unfunded credit commitments to our customers. Actual borrowing needs of our customers may exceed our expectations, especially during a challenging economic environment when our customers’ companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from venture firms. This could adversely affect our liquidity, which could impair our ability to fund operations and meet obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business.. Our business plan emphasizes relationship banking. We have benefited from strong relationships with and among our customers. As a result, our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. Our growth over the past several years has depended on attracting new customers from competing financial institutions and increasing our market share, primarily by the involvement in our primary markets and word-of-mouth advertising, rather than on growth in the market for banking services in our primary markets. As such, we strive to enhance our reputation by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve and delivering superior service to our customers. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our existing relationships may be damaged. We could lose some of our existing customers, including groups of large customers who have relationships with each other, and we may not be successful in attracting new customers. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business has grown rapidly, and we may not be able to maintain our historical rate of growth, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our business has grown rapidly. Financial institutions that grow rapidly can experience significant difficulties as a result of rapid growth. Furthermore, our primary strategy focuses on organic growth, supplemented by acquisitions of banking teams or other financial institutions. We may be unable to execute on aspects of our growth strategy to sustain our historical rate of growth or we may be unable to grow at all. More specifically, we may be unable to generate sufficient new loans and deposits within acceptable risk and expense tolerances, obtain the personnel or funding necessary for additional growth or find suitable banking teams or acquisition candidates. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the growth of our operations, the opening of new branches, and the consummation of acquisitions. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect our growth. The success of our strategy also depends on our ability to effectively manage growth, which is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt existing credit, operational, technology and governance infrastructure to accommodate expanded operations. If we fail to build infrastructure sufficient to support rapid growth or fail to implement one or more aspects of our strategy, we may be unable to maintain historical earnings trends, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. We may not be able to manage the risks associated with our anticipated growth and expansion through de novo branching.. Our business strategy includes evaluating strategic opportunities to grow through de novo branching, and we believe that banking location expansion has been meaningful to our growth since inception. De novo branching carries with it certain potential risks, including significant startup costs and anticipated initial operating losses; an inability to gain regulatory approval; an inability to secure the services of qualified senior management to operate the de novo banking location and successfully integrate and promote our corporate culture; poor market reception for de novo banking locations established in markets where we do not have a preexisting reputation; challenges posed by local economic conditions; challenges associated with securing attractive locations at a reasonable cost; and the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. Failure to adequately manage the risks associated with our anticipated growth through de novo branching could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may pursue acquisitions in the future, which could expose us to financial, execution and operational risks that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Although we plan to continue to grow our business organically, we may from time to time consider acquisition opportunities that we believe complement our activities and have the ability to enhance our profitability. Our acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including those associated with:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe identification of suitable candidates for acquisition;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of management attention from the operation of our existing business to identify, evaluate and negotiate potential transactions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to attract funding to support additional growth within acceptable risk tolerances;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe use of inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to maintain asset quality;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe adequacy of due diligence and the potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities related to the acquisition. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe retention of customers and key personnel, including bankers;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing and uncertainty associated with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe maintenance of adequate regulatory capital.. The market for acquisition targets is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to find acquisition candidates that fit our strategy and standards at acceptable prices. We face significant competition in pursuing acquisition targets from other banks and financial institutions, many of which possess greater financial, human, technical and other resources than we do. Our ability to compete in acquiring target institutions will depend on our available financial resources to fund the acquisitions, including the amount of cash and cash equivalents we have and the liquidity and value of our common stock. In addition, increased competition may also drive up the acquisition consideration that we will be required to pay in order to successfully capitalize on attractive acquisition opportunities. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition targets, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized.. 29. Table of Contents. Acquisitions of financial institutions also involve operational risks and uncertainties, such as unknown or contingent liabilities with no available manner of recourse, exposure to unexpected problems such as asset quality, the retention of key employees and customers, and other issues that could negatively affect our business. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or, if completed, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, technology platforms, management, products and services of the entities that we acquire or to realize our attempts to eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from our management that would otherwise be directed toward servicing existing business and developing new business. Failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations in a timely manner may increase our operating costs significantly and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per share may occur in connection with any future acquisition, and the carrying amount of any goodwill that we currently maintain or may acquire may be subject to impairment in future periods.. Interest rate shifts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The majority of our banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income, or the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. As of December 31, 2017, 34.7% of our earning assets and 50.7% of our interest-bearing liabilities were variable rate. Our interest sensitivity profile was asset sensitive as of December 31, 2017, meaning that we estimate our net interest income would increase more from rising interest rates than from falling interest rates.. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan portfolio and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan portfolio and our overall results. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, deflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. The markets in which we operate are susceptible to hurricanes and other natural disasters and adverse weather, which could result in a disruption of our operations and increases in loan losses.. A significant portion of our business is generated from markets that have been, and may continue to be, damaged by major hurricanes, floods, tropical storms, tornadoes and other natural disasters and adverse weather. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, cause widespread property damage, and severely depress the local economies in which we operate. If the economies in our primary markets experience an overall decline as a result of a natural disaster, adverse weather, or other disaster, demand for loans and our other products and services could be reduced. In addition, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios may increase substantially, as uninsured property losses or sustained job interruption or loss may materially impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans could be materially and adversely affected by a disaster. A disaster could, therefore, result in decreased revenue and loan losses that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 30. Table of Contents. We earn income by originating residential mortgage loans for resale in the secondary mortgage market, and disruptions in that market could reduce our operating income.. Historically, we have earned income by originating mortgage loans for sale in the secondary market.  A historical focus of our loan origination and sales activities has been to enter into formal commitments and informal agreements with larger banking companies and mortgage investors. Under these arrangements, we originate single family mortgages that are priced and underwritten to conform to previously agreed criteria before loan funding and are delivered to the investor shortly after funding. However, in the recent past, disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for, and liquidity of, most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, loans. The effects of these disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans may reappear.. In addition, because government-sponsored entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who account for a substantial portion of the secondary market, are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of these entities could, in turn, adversely affect our operations.  In September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the federal government. The federal government has for many years considered proposals to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but the results of any such reform and their impact on us are difficult to predict. To date, no reform proposal has been enacted.. These disruptions may not only affect us but also the ability and desire of mortgage investors and other banks to purchase residential mortgage loans that we originate. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or grow the income we receive from originating and reselling residential mortgage loans, which would reduce our operating income. Additionally, we may be required to hold mortgage loans that we originated for sale, increasing our exposure to interest rate risk and the value of the residential real estate that serves as collateral for the mortgage loan.. New lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we implement new lines of business, or offer new products and product enhancements as well as new services within our existing lines of business and we will continue to do so in the future. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In implementing, developing or marketing new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services, we may invest significant time and resources, although we may not assign the appropriate level of resources or expertise necessary to make these new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services successful or to realize their expected benefits. Further, initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business, products, product enhancements or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the ultimate implementation of a new line of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services. Furthermore, any new line of business, product, product enhancement or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or offerings of new products, product enhancements or services could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A lack of liquidity could impair our ability to fund operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity is essential to our business, and we monitor our liquidity and manage our liquidity risk at the holding company and bank levels. We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of our investment securities, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds is deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments such as money market funds, we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. 31. Table of Contents. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of our equity and debt securities to investors. Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, or Federal Reserve Bank, and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas, or FHLB. We also borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Our access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in our primary market area or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against us.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because our primary asset at the holding company level is the Bank, our liquidity at the holding company level depends primarily on our receipt of dividends from the Bank. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us for any reason, we may be unable to satisfy our holding company level obligations, which include funding operating expenses and debt service.. We have a concentration of deposit accounts with state and local municipalities that is a material source of our funding, and the loss of these deposits or significant fluctuations in balances held by these public bodies could force us to fund our business through more expensive and less stable sources.. As of December 31, 2017, $170.8 million, or approximately 16.2%, of our total deposits consisted of deposit accounts of public bodies, such as state or local municipalities, or public funds. These types of deposits are often secured and typically fluctuate on a seasonal basis due to timing differences between tax collection and expenditures. Municipal deposits are also generally more sensitive to interest rates and may require competitive rates at placement and subsequent rollover dates, which may make it more difficult for the Bank to attract and retain public and municipal deposits. Withdrawals of deposits or significant fluctuation in a material portion of our largest public fund depositors could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding for our business and withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin and results of operations. We may also be forced, as a result of any withdrawal of deposits, to rely more heavily on other, potentially more expensive and less stable funding sources. Consequently, the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, we may not be able to maintain regulatory compliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions. In addition, we, on a consolidated basis, and Business First Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity in such amounts as the regulators may require from time to time. Importantly, regulatory capital requirements could increase from current levels, which could require us to raise additional capital or reduce our operations. Even if we satisfy all applicable regulatory capital minimums, our regulators could ask us to maintain capital levels which are significantly in excess of those minimums. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. We utilize alternative sources of funding, which may become more expensive or may not be available in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Along with its core deposits, the Bank utilizes alternative funding methods, including brokered and wholesale time deposits, short- and long-term borrowings through a correspondent bank, FHLB advances, and Federal Funds Purchased borrowings. As of December 31, 2017, brokered and wholesale deposits comprised 14.8% of our total deposits, and our borrowings comprised 43.7% of our total shareholders’ equity . If these funding sources becomes more expensive or difficult to access, our net interest income may decline, our liquidity and ability to make new loans may be impaired, or we may fail to meet regulatory capital requirements, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to factors outside of our control.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $179.1 million, which included a net unrealized loss of approximately $2.1 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary often requires complex, subjective judgments about whether there has been a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the issuer, whether management has the intent or ability to hold a security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value, the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security, and other relevant factors.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Ensuring that we have adequate disclosure controls and procedures, including internal controls over financial reporting, in place so we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is costly and time-consuming and needs to be reevaluated frequently. As a public company, we are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, when we cease to be an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, will require a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective due to our failure to cure any identified material weakness or otherwise. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In the future, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or we and our accounting firm may have differences in opinion regarding the applicable requirements. In addition, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such deficiencies may also subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and we may suffer adverse regulatory consequences. There could also be a decline in investor confidence as to the reliability our financial statements, which could result in a decline in the value of our capital stock.. 33. Table of Contents. Our financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.. Our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accounting Principles Accepted in the United States, or GAAP, and with general practices within the financial services industry. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of related revenues and expenses. Certain accounting policies inherently are based to a greater extent on estimates, assumptions and judgments of management and, as such, have a greater possibility of producing results that could be materially different than originally reported. They require management to make subjective or complex judgments, estimates or assumptions, and changes in those estimates or assumptions could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. These critical accounting policies include the allowance for loan losses, accounting for income taxes, the determination of fair value for financial instruments and accounting for stock-based compensation. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, significantly increase our accrued tax liability or otherwise incur charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements which could affect our critical accounting policies and the estimates and assumptions made by management. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict, and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a continuing need for technological change, and we may not have the resources to effectively implement new technology, or we may experience operational challenges when implementing new technology.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, at least in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our products and service offerings. We may experience operational challenges as we implement these new technology enhancements or products, which could result in us not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require us to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products compared to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we may lose customers seeking new technology-driven products and services to the extent we are unable to provide such products and services.. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our business infrastructure, and a failure of these parties to perform for any reason could disrupt our operations.. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as data processing, internet connections, network access, core application processing, statement production and account analysis. Our business depends on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. Replacing vendors or addressing other issues with our third-party service providers could entail significant delay and expense. If we are unable to efficiently replace ineffective service providers, or if we experience a significant, sustained or repeated, system failure or service denial, it could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. We could be subject to losses, regulatory action or reputational harm due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, our employees and vendors.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, and the terms of any such transaction, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements, property appraisals, title information, employment and income documentation, account information and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Any such misrepresentation or incorrect or incomplete information, whether fraudulent or inadvertent, may not be detected prior to funding. In addition, one or more of our employees or vendors could cause a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our loan documentation, operations or systems. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations may also be difficult to locate, and we may be unable to recover any of the monetary losses we may suffer as a result of the misrepresentations. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unauthorized access, cyber-crime and other threats to data security may require significant resources, harm our reputation, and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We necessarily collect, use and hold personal and financial information concerning individuals and businesses with which we have a banking relationship. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access, and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory privacy and other requirements. It is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies, as well as criminal intent on committing cyber-crime. Increasing sophistication of cyber-criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a breach. Controls employed by our information technology department and our other employees and vendors could prove inadequate. We could also experience a breach due to intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources, software bugs or other technical malfunctions, or other causes. As a result of any of these threats, our customer accounts may become vulnerable to account takeover schemes or cyber-fraud. Our systems and those of our third party vendors may also become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware.. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs, and reputational damage, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. In the course of our business, we may purchase real estate, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Any significant environmental liabilities could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 35. Table of Contents. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property.. Banking and other financial services companies, such as ours, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support their day-to-day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. Competitors of our vendors, or other individuals or companies, may from time to time claim to hold intellectual property sold to us by our vendors. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, we may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. If we are found to infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages or royalties to a third party. In certain cases, we may consider entering into licensing agreements for disputed intellectual property, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These licenses may also significantly increase our operating expenses. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against us or settled, we could be required to make payments in amounts that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the goodwill that we have recorded or may record in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets we acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if a triggering event occurs which indicates that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. Our goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. Under the first step, the estimation of fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value including goodwill. If step one indicates a potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $6.8 million. While we have not recorded any impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of our existing goodwill or goodwill we may acquire in the future will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry. We operate in a highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legal requirements that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are not intended to protect our shareholders.  Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the overall financial stability of the United States, and not shareholders or counterparties. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that the Bank can pay to us, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than GAAP would require. Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, could make compliance more difficult or expensive. All of these laws and regulations, and the supervisory framework applicable to our industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions, or the Louisiana OFI, periodically conduct examinations of various aspects of our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal or state banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or the Bank were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against us or the Bank or our respective officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank’s deposit insurance and place it into receivership or conservatorship. Any such regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We are subject to stringent capital requirements, which may result in lower returns on equity, require us to raise additional capital, limit growth opportunities or result in regulatory restrictions.. Beginning January 1, 2015, we became subject to new rules designed to implement the recommendations with respect to regulatory capital standards, commonly known as Basel III, approved by the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The new rules establish a new regulatory capital standard based on tier 1 common equity, increase the minimum tier 1 capital risk-based capital ratio, and impose a capital conservation buffer of at least 2.5% of common equity tier 1 capital above the new minimum regulatory capital ratios, when fully phased in during 2019. The rules also change the manner in which a number of our regulatory capital components are calculated, including deferred tax assets, and the risk weights applicable to certain asset categories. The Basel III rules generally require us to maintain greater amounts of regulatory capital than we were required to maintain prior to implementation of such rules and may also limit or restrict how we utilize our capital. Increased regulatory capital requirements (and the associated compliance costs) whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require us to raise additional capital, or impact our ability to repurchase shares of capital stock, pay dividends or pay compensation to our executives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. If we do not meet minimum capital requirements, we will be subject to prompt corrective action by federal bank regulatory agencies. Prompt corrective action can include progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions. Failure to meet the capital conservation buffer will result in certain limitations on dividends, capital repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. We have submitted a comprehensive capital plan to our regulators for review. Even if we satisfy the objectives of our capital plan and meet minimum capital requirements, it is possible that our regulators may ask us to raise additional capital. For additional discussion regarding our capital requirements, please see “Supervision and Regulation - Regulatory Capital Requirements.”. 37. Table of Contents. New activities and expansion require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth.. From time to time, we may complement and expand our business by pursuing strategic acquisitions of financial institutions and other complementary businesses. Generally, we must receive state and federal regulatory approval before we can acquire an FDIC-insured depository institution or related business.  In determining whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, our financial condition, our future prospects, and the impact of the proposal on U.S. financial stability. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our organic growth strategy.  De novo branching and any acquisitions carry with them numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches could impact our business plans and restrict our growth.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate.  The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. To comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have dedicated significant resources to our anti-money laundering program. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including acquisitions and de novo branching. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The performance of a financial institution under the CRA in meeting the credit needs of its community is a factor that must be taken into consideration when the federal banking agencies evaluate applications related to mergers and acquisitions, as well as branch opening and relocations. If we are unable to maintain at least a “satisfactory” CRA rating, our ability to complete the acquisition of another financial institution or open a new branch will be adversely impacted. If we receive an overall CRA rating of less than “Satisfactory”, our regulators would not re-evaluate our rating until our next CRA examination, which may not occur for one or more years, and it is possible that a low CRA rating would not improve in the future.. 38. Table of Contents. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans, increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans, or increase the time and expense associated with the foreclosure process or prevent us from foreclosing at all.. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make.. Additionally, consumer protection initiatives or changes in state or federal law may substantially increase the time and expense associated with the foreclosure process or prevent us from foreclosing at all. While historically the states in which we operate have had foreclosure laws that are favorable to lenders, a number of states in recent years have either considered or adopted foreclosure reform laws that make it substantially more difficult and expensive for lenders to foreclose on properties in default, and we cannot be certain that the states in which we operate will not adopt similar legislation in the future. If new state or federal laws or regulations are ultimately enacted that significantly raise the cost of foreclosure or raise outright barriers, such could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulations and/or the licensing of loan collections or other aspects of our business and our sales of loans to third parties may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance and subject us to litigation.. Loan collection is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on those activities. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan collection activities including delaying or temporarily preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. If regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which may further adversely affect us. In addition, were we to be subject to regulatory investigation or regulatory action regarding our loan modification and foreclosure practices, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. In addition, we have sold loans to third parties.  In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. These aspects of our business or our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could possibly lead to: civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect us.. Potential limitations on incentive compensation contained in proposed federal agency rulemaking may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain our highest performing employees.. In April 2011 and May 2016, the FDIC, other federal banking agencies and the SEC jointly published proposed rules designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at covered financial institutions, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more in assets, such as the Bank. It cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will substantially affect the manner in which we structure compensation for our executives and other employees. Depending on the nature and application of the final rules, we may not be able to successfully compete with certain financial institutions and other companies that are not subject to some or all of the rules to retain and attract executives and other high performing employees. If this were to occur, relationships that we have established with our customers may be impaired, which could in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 39. Table of Contents. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums could adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject it to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Bank’s regular assessments are determined by the level of its assessment base and its risk classification, which is based on its regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern that it poses. Moreover, the FDIC has the unilateral power to change deposit insurance assessment rates and the manner in which deposit insurance is calculated and also to charge special assessments to FDIC-insured institutions. The FDIC utilized all of these powers during the financial crisis for the purpose of restoring the reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or premiums, or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.. Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require us to make capital injections into the Bank at times when we may not be inclined to do so and may charge us with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit such resources. Accordingly, we could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank if it experiences financial distress.. Such a capital injection may be required at a time when our resources are limited and we may be required to borrow the funds or to raise additional equity capital to make the required capital injection.  In the event of our bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of our general unsecured creditors, including the holders of any note obligations.. We are subject to commercial real estate lending guidance issued by the federal banking regulators that impacts our operations and capital requirements.. The federal banking regulators have issued guidance regarding concentrations in commercial real estate lending directed at institutions that have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios. This guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. As of December 31, 2017, our total loans for acquisition, construction, land development and other land equaled 127.5% of the Bank’s total risk-based capital and combined with our total loans secured by multifamily and non-farm non-residential equaled 288.3% of the Bank’s total risk-based capital. We were within the 300.0% regulatory guideline, but outside the 100.0% regulatory guideline due to the timing of draws on several larger construction and development projects. We have documented procedures and systems in place to manage and monitor our commercial real estate exposures in excess of regulatory guidelines.  It should be noted, however, that increases in our commercial real estate lending, particularly as we expand into metropolitan markets and make more of these loans, could subject us to additional supervisory analysis. We cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management has implemented controls to monitor our commercial real estate lending concentrations, but we cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements.. 40. Table of Contents. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information and any violation of these laws or another incident involving personal, confidential or proprietary information of individuals could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations.  We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to “opt out” of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (iii) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under personal information laws and regulations. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Risks Associated with our Common Stock. An active, liquid market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained.. As of March 21, 2018, there was no established public market for our common stock. We have applied to have our common stock listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, but our application may not be approved. Even if approved, an active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace and independent decisions of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock, over which we have no control. Without an active, liquid trading market for our common stock, shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired. Moreover, the lack of an established market could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock.. 41. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. Assuming the presence of a public market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for you to resell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired. There are many factors that may impact the market price and trading volume of our common stock, including, without limitation:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in economic or business conditions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve, or in laws or regulations affecting us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe number of securities analysts covering us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market valuations or earnings of companies that investors deem comparable to us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe trading volume of our common stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture issuances of our common stock or other securities;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture sales of our common stock by us or our directors, executive officers or significant shareholders;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors and us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting our operations, pricing, products and services; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core market or the financial services industry.. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and cause the value of your investment to decline. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks have experienced substantial fluctuations in recent years, which in many cases have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies. In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our common stock may cause significant price variations to occur. Increased market volatility could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities.. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 9, 2018, there are 10,232,495 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time for any number of reasons, including as consideration for future acquisitions and investments and under compensation and incentive plans. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. 42. Table of Contents. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or under a compensation or incentive plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities.. The rights of our common shareholders may be subordinate to any senior indebtedness or preferred stock that we may issue in the future.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue in the aggregate up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the terms of each issue of preferred stock and any indebtedness, without shareholder approval. Accordingly, you should assume that any shares of preferred stock and any indebtedness that we may issue in the future will also be senior to our common stock. As a result, holders of our common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or our incurrence of other borrowings may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. We are an “emerging growth company,” and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” These include, without limitation, an exemption from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced financial reporting requirements, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2020, although we could lose that status sooner if our gross revenues exceed $1.0 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. Investors may find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions, which may result in a less active trading market and increased volatility in our stock price.. Our dividend policy may change without notice, and our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such cash dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Although we have declared a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2016, we have no obligation to continue paying dividends, and we may change our dividend policy at any time without notice to our shareholders. Our ability to pay dividends may also be limited on account of any outstanding indebtedness or preferred stock we may issue in the future, as we generally be required to make payments on any outstanding indebtedness and outstanding preferred stock before any dividends can be paid on our common stock. Finally, because our primary asset is our investment in the stock of the Bank, we are dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay our operating expenses, satisfy our obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock, and the Bank’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will substantially depend upon its earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors. There are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit our and the Bank’s ability to pay dividends. See “Dividend Policy” and “Supervision and Regulation — Dividends.”. 43. Table of Contents. Our corporate governance documents, and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover more difficult.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and corporate and federal banking laws, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our organization or conduct a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our shareholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions, and the corporate and banking laws and regulations applicable to us:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenable our board of directors to issue additional shares of authorized, but unissued capital stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenable our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenable our board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill the vacancies created by the increase;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdo not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenable our board of directors to amend our bylaws without shareholder approval;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the vote of holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock to modify the sections of our articles of incorporation addressing limitation of liability and indemnification of our officers and directors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the request of holders of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote at a meeting to call a special shareholders’ meeting;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish an advance notice procedure for director nominations and other shareholder proposals; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of our organization.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares. See “Description of our Capital Stock” and “Supervision and Regulation.”. Securities analysts may not initiate or continue coverage on us.. Subject to the approval of our NASDAQ listing application, the trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these securities analysts, and they may not cover us. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our common stock to decline. If we are covered by securities analysts and are the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our common stock may decline.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or under a compensation or incentive plan), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of our securities.. An investment in Business First’s common stock is not an insured deposit and is subject to risk of loss.. Your investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment is subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment.. 44. Table of Contents"                                                                                                              
