[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these risks, some of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, which could negatively impact our stock price.. 11. Table of Contents. Failure to execute our growth strategy could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Our business strategy is to create long-term sustainable growth, both organically and through acquisitions, while selling products and services that address customer needs and capitalize on current and next-generation market opportunities. The success of this strategy could be affected by our ability to:. • Ensure that any new offerings address the needs of a rapidly changing market while not adversely affecting demand for our traditional products;. • Execute renewals within our existing customer base at acceptable renewal rates;. • Expand relationships with our global customer base and address opportunities with new customers (e.g., in geographic regions where we have underserved, or with chief information security officers and chief development officers, who have not been our traditional customers) at levels sufficient to offset any declines in revenue in our Mainframe Solutions segment, which is subject to an industry-wide decline due to new technologies, and in mature product lines in our Enterprise Solutions segment;. • Effectively manage the strategic shift in our business model to increase sales through our digital sales forces and indirectly through our partners, as well as provide additional SaaS offerings, offer try-and-buy models and refocus our professional services and education engagements on those engagements that are connected to new product sales, without affecting our financial performance to an extent greater than anticipated; and. • Effectively manage our pricing and other go-to-market strategies, as well as improve the CA Technologies brand, technology and innovation awareness in the marketplace.. If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategy, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. We are subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing, and we expect this to continue in the future, which could either diminish demand for, or inhibit growth of, our products and reduce our sales, revenue and market presence.. Our business strategy is based upon our ability to develop and acquire products and services that are accepted by the market better than those of our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will effectively meet these competitive demands. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive, and we expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to continue. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of customers in any particular market niche, larger technical staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors, or greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We also face competition from numerous start-ups and smaller companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry, and from open source authors who may provide software and intellectual property for free, competitors who may offer their products through try-and-buy or freemium models, and customers who may develop competing products. Competition from any of these sources could also result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could materially adversely affect our financial results.. Our competitors also include large vendors of hardware and operating system software and cloud service providers, who continue to both expand their product and service offerings, and consolidate offerings into broad product lines. The widespread inclusion of products that perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled within computer hardware or other companies' software products, or the provision of services similar to those provided by us, could reduce the perceived need for our products and services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, the software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and broader arrays of software products and services, as well as integrated software and hardware solutions. The increased bundling of products and services and industry consolidation may adversely affect our competitive position, which could materially adversely affect our sales, revenue and market presence. Refer to Part I, Item 1, \"Business - Competition,\" of this Form 10-K for additional information.. Failure to innovate or adapt to technological changes, or develop and introduce new software products and services in a timely and market-accepted manner, could materially adversely affect our business.. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new delivery methods. The newer enterprise solutions markets in which we operate - including non-mainframe platforms from physical to virtual and cloud - are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems management markets.. 12. Table of Contents. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon many factors, including the success of our existing solutions, the timely introduction and success of future software products and services, including those that we acquire or develop, and related delivery methods (e.g., SaaS), as well as our ability to provide successful, timely and adequate customer support. Further, as our existing products mature, they may become obsolete. The emergence of cloud computing means that many of our enterprise solutions customers are themselves undergoing a radical shift in the way they deliver IT services to their businesses. The shift towards delivering infrastructure and SaaS from the cloud may negatively affect our ability to sell IT management solutions to our traditional enterprise solutions customers. Failure to adapt our products, solutions, delivery models and sales approaches to effectively plan for cloud computing may adversely affect our business. If we are not successful in anticipating the rate of market change towards the cloud computing paradigm and evolving with it by delivering solutions for IT management in the cloud computing environment, customers may forgo the use of our products, particularly certain mature product lines in our Enterprise Solutions segment, in favor of those with comparable functionality delivered via the cloud.. We have experienced long development cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of our enterprise solutions, and even with the Agile development methodology we may experience delays in the future. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant research and development costs to introduce new products and integrate products into solution sets. If there are delays in new product introduction or solution set integration, or if there is less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products or solution sets, we may have invested substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in return. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that as technologies become outdated or new delivery methods are required, we will be able to adopt or introduce them as quickly as our competitors, or within budgeted costs and time frames, which could adversely affect our business and reputation.. If our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments, platforms, or third-party products, we could lose customers and the demand for our products and services could decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. The largest suppliers of systems and computing software are, in most cases, the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers, particularly in the mainframe space. These companies periodically modify or introduce new operating systems, systems software and computer hardware. In the future, new products from these companies could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies' hardware or software. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt our products and our business to future changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software developers.. Further, our solutions interact with a variety of software and hardware developed by third parties and we may lose access to third-party code and specifications for the development of code, which could materially adversely affect our ability to develop software compatible with third-party software products in the future. Some software providers and hardware manufacturers, including some of the largest vendors, have a policy of restricting the use or availability of their code or technical documentation for some of their operating systems, applications, or hardware. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Any additional restrictions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Given the global nature of our business, economic factors or political events beyond our control and other business and legal risks associated with global operations can affect our business in unpredictable ways.. International revenue has historically represented a significant percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Success in selling and developing our products throughout the world depends on a variety of factors, including:. • Developing and executing an effective go-to-market strategy in various locations;. • Foreign exchange rates;. • Changes in global, economic and political landscapes;. • Acts of terrorism;. • Workforce reorganizations in various locations, including global reorganizations of sales, research and development, technical services, finance, human resources and facilities functions;. • Effectively staffing key managerial and technical positions;. • Successfully localizing software products for a significant number of international markets;. • Restrictive employment regulation; and. • Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties, taxes or other controls.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, compliance by us and our partners (including unaffiliated third-party partners) with differing local laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple international jurisdictions, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations increases our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include restrictive local laws regarding the transfer of funds from, or the conversion of currencies in, certain countries, international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law, as well as anti-corruption, competition, anti-money laundering, export control and data privacy laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks, as well as the new EU General Data Protection Regulation, which will become effective on May 25, 2018, the Network and Information Security Directive in the EU, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions.. We have implemented policies, procedures and controls designed to achieve compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but our corporate policies, process and controls may not prevent or detect all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. Any violation of these laws could lead to substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, litigation, loss of operating licenses or permits and other collateral consequences.. An unfavorable development regarding any of the foregoing factors, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business.. Failure to sell and renew license agreements on a satisfactory basis could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. The success of our business depends on attracting new customers to our products and solution sets and retaining or increasing the level of revenues derived from existing customers. We utilize direct sales efforts, as well as third-party partners, to sell our products and solutions sets, and our sales efforts may be unsuccessful. Many of our existing customers have multi-year enterprise license agreements, some of which involve substantial aggregate fee amounts. These customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions. Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of customer satisfaction with our solutions or customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions as compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, if at all. The failure to sell new license agreements and renew transactions in the future, or failure to replace those enterprise license agreements with renewal transactions of similar scope, on terms that are commercially attractive to us, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Failure to expand partner programs and failure by our partners to leverage their sales channels to drive our revenue growth may result in lost sales opportunities and a weakening of our market position.. In addition to our direct sales efforts, we sell our products and solutions through various partner channels, which include resellers, global service providers, global system integrators, managed service providers and global technology partners. Through our various global partner programs, we provide incentives, training, enablement and marketing investments so our partners have the capability and expertise to sell and deliver these solutions to their customers. We also leverage global systems integrators and global service providers to assist with and influence the sales of solutions to our top customers and we utilize resellers to better penetrate the partner-driven commercial market. The failure to expand partner programs or failure by our partners to leverage their sales channels could result in lost incremental sales opportunities that adversely affect our overall business success, including our market position.. Our business may suffer if we are not able to retain and attract qualified professionals, including key managerial, technical, marketing and sales professionals.. We depend on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective professionals and to attract and retain talent needed to execute our business strategy, which ability depends on, among other factors, the strength of our brand recognition. We also depend on our ability to perform these tasks with respect to professionals from acquired companies, which ability may be negatively impacted by our efforts to integrate and rationalize the products and lines of business we have acquired. Our ability to do so depends on numerous factors, including factors that we cannot control, such as competition and conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. Effective succession planning is also important for our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. As our success depends in a large part on the continued contribution of our senior management and other key employees, a loss of a significant number of skilled managerial, technical or other professionals could have a negative effect on the quality of our products. A loss of a significant number of experienced and effective sales professionals could result in lower sales of our products. Furthermore, many of our key personnel receive a compensation package that includes equity awards. Any new regulations, volatility in the stock market or other factors could diminish our use, and the value, of our equity awards, forcing us to use a higher proportion of cash compensation to incentivize our key personnel, or putting us at a competitive disadvantage.. 14. Table of Contents. Changes in generally accepted accounting principles may materially adversely affect our reported results of operations or financial position.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issues new accounting principles. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (\"Topic 606\") that will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") when it becomes effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Under Topic 606, more judgment and estimates will be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP. We currently anticipate that this standard will have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements, revenue recognition policies and related disclosures. We also presently anticipate that this standard could create volatility in our reported revenue and operating results, which could negatively impact our stock price. We currently believe the most significant effect relates to the timing of the recognition of our software license revenue. As a result, a significant portion of our revenue backlog (i.e., deferred revenue and future billings on committed contracts) relating to the license component of customer contracts at March 31, 2018 under existing GAAP will not be recognized as revenue in future periods but instead will be included as part of the cumulative effect adjustment within retained earnings upon adoption of Topic 606. Refer to Note 1, \"Significant Accounting Policies,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about Topic 606 and other new accounting pronouncements. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting policies, systems and internal controls over financial reporting. For example, in connection with our adoption of Topic 606, we are developing new policies and processes based on the changes in revenue recognition guidance and implementing a new revenue recognition accounting system. Such changes and any difficulties implementing such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results and the effectiveness of our internal controls.. We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our existing business, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. In the past we have acquired, and in the future we expect to acquire, complementary companies, products, services and technologies through a number of different vehicles, including through mergers, asset acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, strategic alliances and equity investments. Additionally, we expect to acquire technology that is consistent with our business strategy. The risks we may encounter with any such acquisition or integration of an acquisition include:. • We may find that the acquired company or assets do not improve our financial and/or strategic position as planned;. • We may have difficulty integrating the operations, facilities, personnel and compensation plans of the acquired business;. • We may have difficulty retaining the skills needed to further market, sell or provide services on the acquired products in a manner that will be accepted by the market;. • We may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products into our existing product lines, and in selling such technologies or products to our customers and through our partner programs;. • Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues and our management's attention may be diverted from other business initiatives;. • Our relationships with current and new employees, customers and business partners could be impaired;. • An acquisition may result in increased litigation risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third parties, as well as product, customer or intellectual property liability;. • Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal control deficiencies including material weaknesses, product architecture, legal and tax contingencies, compliance with differing, changing and potentially inconsistent local laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple international jurisdictions, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations, and other matters; and. • We may not be able to realize the benefits of recognized goodwill and intangible assets and this may result in the potential impairment of these assets.. These risks can be heightened during periods when we seek to integrate multiple acquisitions at the same time or in a relatively short period of time. Furthermore, to the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for acquisitions or to retain employees, existing stockholders' interests may be diluted and income per share may decrease. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. 15. Table of Contents. Our data center, network and software products, and the IT environments of our business partners and customers are subject to hacking or other cybersecurity threats, which could result in a loss or misuse of proprietary, personally identifiable and confidential information and/or harm to our customer relationships and the market perception of the effectiveness of our products.. Given that some of our products are intended to manage and secure IT infrastructures and environments, we expect to be an ongoing target of cybersecurity attacks. Open source code or other third-party software used in our infrastructure and products could also be targeted, as could our software being utilized by our customers. This risk can be heightened for acquired products, which may not have gone through the same testing and quality control measures as our organically developed products. Additionally, our SaaS business includes the hosting of customer data and uses third-party data centers that may also be subject to hacking incidents. If our SaaS business increases substantially, whether due to organic growth or the acquisition of SaaS businesses, our exposure to hacking incidents could increase due to the increase in the volume of SaaS business activity and the potential increase in the number of SaaS technology platforms we might maintain. Although we continually seek to improve our countermeasures to prevent such incidents, we may be unable to anticipate every scenario and it is possible that certain cyber threats or vulnerabilities will be undetected or unmitigated in time to prevent an attack on us and our customers. Cybersecurity attacks could require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of our resources. Additionally, efforts by hackers or others could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, or modification of our software, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers. If these attacks are successful, they could result in the theft of proprietary, personally identifiable, confidential and sensitive information of ours, our employees, our customers and our business partners, and could materially disrupt business for us, our customers and our business partners. A successful cybersecurity attack involving our data center, network or software products could also negatively impact the market perception of the effectiveness of our products or lead to contractual disputes, litigation or government regulatory action against us, any of which could materially adversely affect our business.. If we do not adequately manage, evolve and protect our information systems, infrastructure and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed.. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for managing the financial information of our business. For example, in connection with our adoption of Topic 606, we are implementing a new revenue recognition accounting system. Any disruption in such information systems could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we continuously work to enhance our information systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired companies, which is frequently disruptive to the underlying business. Additionally, delays in adapting our information systems to address new business models, such as SaaS, or the adoption of Topic 606 could limit the success or result in the failure of those initiatives and impair the effectiveness of our internal controls.. Although we have implemented a disaster recovery program, our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all situations, including scenarios associated with acquired companies. Failure to adequately address these issues, as well as to manage and protect our infrastructure, could adversely affect our ability to manage and grow our business, including our SaaS business.. General economic conditions and credit constraints, or unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry sector, may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology investments and could have other impacts, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Our products are designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of our customers' information processing resources. However, a general slowdown in the global economy or in a particular region, such as Europe, a disruption in a business or an industry sector or tightening of credit markets could cause our current or any new customers to have difficulty accessing credit sources, delay contractual payments, or delay or forgo decisions to (i) license our products (particularly with respect to discretionary spending for software), (ii) upgrade existing environments or (iii) purchase services.. Furthermore, a general slowdown in the global economy may also materially affect the global banking system, including individual institutions as well as a particular business or industry sector, which could cause consolidations or failures in that sector. Approximately one third of our revenue is derived from arrangements with financial institutions (i.e., banking, brokerage and insurance companies). In addition, we derive material portions of our revenue from other industries such as telecommunications and health care that rely on transaction processing. The majority of these arrangements are for the renewal of mainframe solutions capacity and maintenance associated with transactions processed by our customers. While we cannot predict what impact there may be on our business from changes to the financial industry, telecommunications or health care sectors, or the impact on our business from the economy in general, any material change in general economic conditions, or conditions in a particular sector, may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology investments and could have other impacts, any of which could affect the manner in which we are able to conduct business.. 16. Table of Contents. Our sales to government clients subject us to uncertainties regarding fiscal funding approvals, renegotiations or terminations at the discretion of the government, as well as audits and investigations, which could result in litigation, penalties and sanctions including early termination, suspension and debarment.. Approximately 7% of our total revenue backlog at March 31, 2018 is associated with multi-year contracts signed with the U.S. federal government and other U.S. state and local government agencies. These contracts are generally subject to annual fiscal funding approval and may be renegotiated or terminated at the discretion of the government. Termination, renegotiation or the lack of funding approval for a contract could adversely affect our sales, revenue and reputation. Additionally, our government contracts are generally subject to certain requirements, some of which are generally not present in commercial contracts and/or may be complex, as well as to audits and investigations. Failure to meet contractual requirements could result in various civil and criminal actions and penalties, and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could result in losses.. We operate global businesses and our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given that cash is typically received over an extended period of time for many of our license agreements and given that a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates against the U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported revenues and operating results due to the foreign exchange impact of translating these transactions into U.S. dollars.. In the normal course of business, we employ various hedging strategies to partially mitigate these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. These strategies may not be effective in protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations of the foreign exchange rates could result in financial losses.. Discovery of errors or omissions in our software products could materially adversely affect our revenue and earnings.. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors or omissions will not be found in current versions, new versions, documentation or enhancements of our software products. This risk can be heightened with acquired products which may not have gone through the same testing and quality control measures as our organically developed products. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be adversely affected. We could also face possible claims and higher development costs if our products contain errors that we have not detected, cause damage to customer or third-party systems, or otherwise fail to meet customer expectations. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers license and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because, in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault, which could cause us to be harmed by the failure of another supplier's products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience:. • Loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share;. • Loss of customers, including the inability to obtain repeat business with existing key customers;. • Damage to our reputation;. • Failure to achieve market acceptance;. • Diversion of development resources;. • Remediation efforts that may be required;. • Increased service and warranty costs;. • Legal actions by customers or government authorities against us that, whether or not successful, could be costly, distracting and time-consuming;. • Increased insurance costs; and. • Failure to successfully complete service or customer support engagements for product installations, implementations and integrations.. Consequently, the discovery of errors in our products after delivery could materially adversely affect our revenue and earnings.. 17. Table of Contents. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights and source code could weaken our competitive position.. Our success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology. We protect our rights through a variety of measures, including patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our rights, policing unauthorized use is difficult, and intellectual property litigation can be expensive and disruptive to our business. The laws of other countries may not be as protective as those of the United States. In addition, our patents may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. Furthermore, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions can be difficult to enforce and, even if successfully enforced, may not be entirely effective. Failure to protect such technology could lead to the loss of valuable assets and our competitive advantage. Refer to Part I, Item 1, \"Business - Intellectual Property,\" of this Form 10-K for additional information.. Certain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expense.. Some of our solutions contain software licensed from third parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where the benefit of continuity of the licensed product would outweigh the premium cost of the license.. Certain software we use is from open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Some of our products contain software from open source code sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our products that use open source code for no cost or to make the proprietary source code of those products publicly available. Further, although some open source vendors provide warranty and support agreements in conjunction with the use of their open source software, it is common for many open source software authors to make their open source software available \"as-is\" with no warranty, indemnity or support. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open source code may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions, which could require us to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. Third parties could claim that our products infringe or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights and/or that we owe royalty payments to them, which could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms.. From time to time, third parties have claimed and may claim that our products, both organically developed and acquired, infringe various forms of their intellectual property and/or that we owe royalty payments to them. Investigation of these claims can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or shipment of our products. As the number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time consuming and could result in significant litigation expense, adverse judgments or settlement on unfavorable terms, and divert our management's attention, any of which could materially adversely affect our business.. The number, terms and duration of our license agreements, as well as the timing of orders from our customers and channel partners, may cause fluctuations in some of our financial metrics, which may affect our quarterly financial results.. Historically, a substantial portion of our license agreements are executed in the last month of a quarter and the number of contracts executed during a given quarter can vary substantially. In addition, it is characteristic of our industry when dealing with enterprise customers to experience long sales cycles, which for us is driven in part by the varying terms and conditions of our software contracts. These factors can make it difficult for us to predict sales and cash flow on a quarterly basis. Any failure or delay in executing new or renewed license agreements in a given quarter could cause declines in some of our financial metrics (e.g., revenue or cash flow), and, accordingly, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results.. Potential tax liabilities may materially adversely affect our results.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, we engage in many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.. 18. Table of Contents. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on December 22, 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate, limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation and the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. This new law also includes a provision that imposes a transition tax on foreign earnings whether or not such earnings are repatriated to the U.S. We have provided provisional amounts to estimate the tax impacts of the Tax Act. We will continue to refine the provisional amounts as we review and analyze results from operations needed for calculations under the Tax Act, as well as further review the historic unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and take into consideration any additional regulatory guidance published by the U.S. tax authorities in respect of the Tax Act. Compliance with the Tax Act may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, interpretation of further regulatory guidance and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for our tax provisions. The Company expects to finalize the tax expense as soon as practical, but not later than the third quarter of fiscal 2019, and such updates to our calculations may differ, possibly materially, from the provisional amounts previously recorded.. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. We believe our tax estimates are reasonable, including the provisional amounts relating to the Tax Act. However, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Additional tax assessments resulting from audit, litigation or changes in tax laws, as well as further guidance to clarify or interpret uncertainties in the tax laws, such as the Tax Act, may result in increased tax provisions or payments or possibly criminal claims, penalties or fines which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow in the period or periods in which that determination is made. Refer to Note 14, \"Income Taxes,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our tax matters.. Changes in market conditions or our credit ratings could increase our interest costs and adversely affect the cost of refinancing our debt and our ability to refinance our debt, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. At March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had $2,783 million and $2,791 million, respectively, of debt outstanding, consisting mostly of unsecured senior note obligations. Refer to Note 7, \"Debt,\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the payment schedule of our long-term debt obligations. Our senior unsecured notes are rated by Moody's Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and Poor's. These agencies or any other credit rating agency could downgrade or take other negative action with respect to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings were downgraded or other negative action is taken, or market conditions change, we could be required to, among other things, pay additional interest on outstanding borrowings under our principal revolving credit agreement and term loan agreement. Any downgrades or changes in market conditions could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due, renew credit lines prior to their expiration or refinance our existing debt on satisfactory terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. We may encounter events or circumstances that would require us to record an impairment charge relating to our goodwill or capitalized software and other intangible assets balances.. Under GAAP, we are required to evaluate our capitalized software and other intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, and more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In future periods, we may be subject to factors that may constitute a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds fair value or our capitalized software and other intangible assets may not be recoverable. These changes may consist of, but are not limited to, declines in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. Any of these factors, or others, could require us to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in our financial statements during a period. Acquisitions can result in additional goodwill or capitalized software and other intangible assets balances subject to impairment risk. If we determine that a significant impairment of our goodwill or our capitalized software and other intangible assets has occurred in any of our operating segments, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Failure by us to effectively execute on our announced restructuring plans could result in total costs that are greater than expected or revenues that are less than anticipated.. In May 2018, we announced a restructuring plan, which includes workforce reductions, global facility exits and consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives, to better align our business priorities. We may have further workforce reductions, global facility exits and consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives in the future, as part of this restructuring plan or subsequent plans. Risks associated with these actions include delays in implementation, changes in plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. 19. Table of Contents. We have outsourced various functions to third parties that may not be successful or fully secure, which could result in increased costs or an increased chance of a cybersecurity breach.. We have outsourced various functions to third parties, including certain product development and administrative functions, cloud-based services and hosting for our SaaS business. We may outsource additional functions to third parties in the future. These outsourced functions may involve confidential and/or personally identifiable information. We rely on these third parties to provide outsourced services on a timely and effective basis and to adequately address their own cybersecurity threats. Although we periodically monitor the performance of these third parties and maintain contingency plans in case the third parties are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control the performance of these third parties. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners or vendors to perform as expected could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations or our customers' operations, or the potential loss of personally identifiable information of our customers, employees and business partners that could subject us to legal action by government authorities or private parties.. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock in any particular amount or at all.. The payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend and the repurchase of shares of our common stock is subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, our financial condition, historical and forecast operating results, and available cash flow, as well as any applicable laws and contractual covenants and any other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments or stock repurchases could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock."
