[1] "ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a significant portion of our cash flow is used to make interest payments and rent payments under the Lease Agreements could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments and rent payments.. Caesars Entertainment is a highly-leveraged company and had $9.0 billion in debt outstanding under credit facilities and notes (including our convertible notes) as of December 31, 2017. As a result, a significant portion of our liquidity needs are for debt service on such indebtedness, including significant interest payments. Our estimated debt service (including principal and interest) on our credit facilities and notes (including our convertible notes) is $504 million for 2018 and $11.8 billion thereafter to maturity for our currently outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities and notes (including our convertible notes).. See Note 12 for details of our debt outstanding and related restrictive covenants.. Our substantial indebtedness and the restrictive covenants under the agreements governing such indebtedness could:. • limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, rent payment requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and the Lease Agreements (defined below), and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments or Lease Agreements, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness or such Lease Agreements;. • require that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations be dedicated to the payment of rent and interest and repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business;. • make us more highly-leveraged than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy;. • restrict the availability for us to make strategic acquisitions, develop new gaming facilities, introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;. •  affect our ability to renew certain gaming and other licenses;. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness and the Lease Agreements, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets; and. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest.. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations and lease obligations.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and lease obligations will depend upon, among other things:. • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. • our future ability to borrow under our credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants thereunder.. 11. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business and operations.. Our debt agreements contain, and the agreements governing any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on the issuer of the debt's ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets;. • create liens on certain assets;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our subsidiaries' secured debt agreements. If any of our lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness.. We are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios under the agreements governing our revolving credit facilities if and when specified amounts are drawn and outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. See Note 12 for further information. Our ability to meet the financial ratios under our debt agreements can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet those ratios.. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness could result in an event of default thereunder, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under the indebtedness of CRC or CEOC LLC, the lenders or noteholders thereunder:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to such borrowers;. • could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or. • require such borrowers to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness.. Such actions by the lenders or noteholders under CRC's or CEOC LLC's indebtedness could cause cross defaults under the other indebtedness of CRC or CEOC LLC, respectively. For instance, if CRC were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under CRC's secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.. If the indebtedness under CRC's or CEOC LLC's credit facilities or other indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that their assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full.. CEC, CEOC LLC, and CRC are parties to certain leasing and related arrangements that may have a negative effect on CEC's business and operations.. CEC, CEOC LLC, CRC, and certain of their subsidiaries are parties to certain leasing and financial commitments, including three lease agreements relating to properties operated by CEOC LLC or its subsidiaries (the \"CEOC LLC Lease Agreements\"), three related management and lease support agreements, a lease agreement relating to a property operated by a subsidiary of CRC (the \"HLV Lease Agreement\" and collectively with the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements, the \"Lease Agreements\") and a related guaranty (collectively, the \"Lease Documents\"). Pursuant to the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements, certain subsidiaries of PropCo lease properties to CEOC LLC (or the applicable subsidiaries of CEOC LLC) and CEOC LLC (or the applicable subsidiaries of CEOC LLC) is responsible for lease payments and other monetary obligations: (1) for Caesars Palace Las Vegas; (2) for substantially all domestic properties previously owned by CEOC other than Caesars Palace Las Vegas; and (3) for Harrah's Joliet Hotel & Casino. 12. in Joliet, Illinois. CEC guarantees the payment and performance of all monetary obligations of CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries under the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements. Pursuant to the HLV Lease Agreement, PropCo leases Harrah's Las Vegas to a subsidiary of CRC, which is responsible for lease payments and other obligations for Harrah's Las Vegas. CRC guarantees the payment and performance of all monetary obligations of its subsidiary under the HLV Lease Agreement.. CEC has entered into call right agreements with PropCo pursuant to which PropCo has the right to purchase and lease to CEC or one of its subsidiaries interests in the real property assets associated with Harrah's Laughlin, Harrah's Atlantic City and Harrah's New Orleans, which could also impose additional lease payments and other obligations on CEC. CEC and PropCo also entered into a right of first refusal agreement that provides, among other things, for (a) a grant by CEC (on behalf of itself and all of its majority owned subsidiaries) to PropCo (on behalf of itself and all of its majority owned subsidiaries) of a right of first refusal to own and lease to an affiliate of CEC certain non-Las Vegas domestic real estate that CEC or its affiliates may have the opportunity to acquire or develop and (b) a grant by PropCo to CEC of a right of first refusal to lease and manage certain non-Las Vegas domestic real estate that PropCo may have the opportunity to acquire or develop.. Pursuant to the Lease Agreements, CEC's subsidiaries are obligated to pay, in the aggregate, approximately $727 million in fixed annual rents, subject to certain escalators and adjustments beginning at various points in the initial term and continuing through the renewal terms equal to the greater of either: (i) 1% or 2% (varies by lease) or (ii) the Consumer Price Index. If CEC's businesses and properties fail to generate sufficient earnings, the payments required to service these leasing commitments may materially and adversely limit the ability of CEC to make investments to maintain and grow its portfolio of businesses and properties. Additionally, CEC may be subject to other significant obligations under its guarantees if its subsidiaries are unable to satisfy their lease payments and other monetary obligations which could materially and adversely affect CEC's business and operating results.. CEC's guarantees of the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements impose restrictions on certain business activities of CEC, including restrictions on sales of assets and making dividends and distributions. The Lease Documents generally impose restrictions on the business activities of CEOC LLC, CRC and their applicable subsidiaries, including restrictions on transfers of the leased properties, requirements to make specified minimum levels of capital expenditures and limitations regarding how the leased properties may be operated. Compliance with the restrictions in the Lease Documents may constrain the ability of CEC to implement any growth plans as well as its flexibility to react and adapt to unexpected operational challenges and adverse changes in economic and legal conditions. Additionally, with respect to properties leased pursuant to the Lease Agreements, CEOC LLC or CRC (or their applicable subsidiaries) generally will be required to restore properties that are damaged by casualties regardless of whether any insurance proceeds are sufficient to pay for the restoration.. Each of CEOC LLC and CRC are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to PropCo pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Lease Agreements, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions, and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes.. Each of CEOC LLC and CRC are required to pay a significant portion of their cash flow from operations to PropCo pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Lease Agreements. As a result of this commitment, their ability to fund their own operations or development projects, raise capital, make acquisitions and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. For example, their obligations under the Lease Agreements may:. • make it more difficult for the applicable entity to satisfy their obligations with respect to their indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness;. • increase the applicable entity's vulnerability to general or regional adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in its business;. • require the applicable entity to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to making lease payments, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limit the applicable entity's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and. • restrict the applicable entity's ability to raise capital, make acquisitions and divestitures and engage in other significant transactions.. In addition, the annual rent escalations under the Lease Agreements will continue to apply regardless of the amount of cash flows generated by the properties that are subject to the Lease Agreements. Accordingly, if the cash flows generated by such properties decrease, or do not increase at the same rate as the rent escalations, the rents payable under the Lease Agreements could comprise. 13. a higher percentage of the cash flows generated by the applicable entity, which could exacerbate, perhaps materially, the issues described above.. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on CEOC LLC's and CRC's respective business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The CEC Convertible Notes are exercisable for shares of our common stock. The exercise of such equity instruments would have a dilutive effect to stockholders of CEC.. The CEC Convertible Notes are exercisable for shares of our common stock. The exercise of such equity instruments would have a dilutive effect to stockholders of CEC. In accordance with the terms of the Plan, on the Effective Date, we issued approximately $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of CEC Convertible Notes that are convertible at the option of holders into a number of shares of our common stock that is initially equal to 0.139 shares of our common stock per $1.00 principal amount of CEC Convertible Notes, or approximately 156 million shares. If all the shares were issued on the Effective Date, they would have represented approximately 17.9% of the shares of our common stock outstanding after giving effect to the shares issued in accordance with the Plan. The CEC Convertibles Notes are subject to conversion at our option following the third anniversary of the issuance of the CEC Convertible Notes if the last reported sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds 140% of the conversion price for the CEC Convertible Notes in effect on each of at least 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive trading day period. CEC does not have any other redemption rights. As of December 31, 2017, the remaining life of the CEC Convertible Notes is 6.75 years.. Most of CEOC LLC's U.S. gaming facilities, as well as Harrah's Las Vegas, are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, consents and approvals, charges and our relationship with PropCo, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.. Most of CEOC LLC's U.S. gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, consents and approvals, charges and our relationship with PropCo, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries lease most of the gaming facilities they operate pursuant to the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements. Termination of any or all of the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements would result in CEOC LLC or its applicable subsidiaries losing some or all of their rights with respect to the applicable properties, could result in a default under CEOC LLC's debt agreements, and could have a material adverse effect on CEOC LLC's business, financial position, or results of operations. In the event of certain terminations of the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements, CEOC LLC or its applicable subsidiaries may be required to cooperate to transfer all personal property located at the applicable facility to a designated successor. In addition, CEOC LLC or its applicable subsidiaries have granted to PropCo liens on substantially all personal property located at the leased facilities, which would allow PropCo to take possession of that property upon a termination of the applicable CEOC LLC Lease Agreement. Moreover, since as a lessee CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries do not completely control the land and improvements underlying their operations, PropCo, as lessor, could take certain actions to disrupt CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries' rights in the facilities leased under the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements, which are beyond our control. If PropCo chose to disrupt CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries' use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of their assets could be impaired and their business and operations could be adversely affected. There can also be no assurance that CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries will be able to comply with their obligations under the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements in the future. In addition, if PropCo has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges there can be no assurance that PropCo will be able to comply with its obligations under its agreements with CEC, CEOC LLC, or their subsidiaries.. CRC's subsidiary leases Harrah's Las Vegas from PropCo pursuant to the HLV Lease Agreement on terms that are similar to those of the CEOC LLC Lease Agreements. CRC and its subsidiary, therefore, are subject to many of the same risks described above with respect to Harrah's Las Vegas.. The Lease Agreements are a type of lease that is commonly known as a triple net lease. Accordingly, in addition to rent, the tenants under the Lease Agreements are required to pay all operating costs associated with the respective facilities, including the payment of taxes, insurance, and all repairs, and providing indemnities to PropCo against liabilities associated with the operations of each facility. CEC's applicable subsidiaries are responsible for incurring the costs described in the preceding sentence notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs may in part accrue to PropCo as owner of the associated facilities. In addition, if some of the leased facilities should prove to be unprofitable, CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries or CRC's subsidiary, as applicable, could remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the Lease Agreements even if they decided to withdraw from those locations. CEOC LLC and its subsidiaries or CRC's subsidiary, as applicable, could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including lease termination costs, impairment charges, and other special charges that would reduce their net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and lease commitments, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and lease commitments that may not be successful.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or may be unable to draw under our credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Our operating cash inflows are typically used for operating expenses, debt service costs, lease payments, working capital needs, and capital expenditures in the normal course of business. Our estimated debt service (including principal and interest) is $504 million for 2018 and $11.8 billion thereafter to maturity for our outstanding indebtedness and our estimated financing obligations are $666 million for 2018 and $39.3 billion thereafter to maturity for our outstanding lease arrangements. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or pay our financing obligations, there can be no assurances that our business will continue in its current state.. See Note 12 for details of our debt outstanding and Note 10 for details of our lease commitments.. We may incur additional indebtedness and lease commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness and lease commitments at any time and from time to time in the future. Although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness and lease commitments contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and certain types of lease commitments, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness and lease commitments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, as of December 31, 2017, CRC had $1 billion of additional borrowing capacity available under its senior secured credit facility, and CEOC LLC had a total of $150 million of additional borrowing capacity available under its senior secured credit facility, net of $50 million committed to outstanding letters of credit. We may consider incurring additional indebtedness in the future to fund our growth strategy, including without limitation, our pending acquisition of Centaur Holdings, LLC.. Our subsidiary debt agreements allow for limited future issuances of additional secured or unsecured indebtedness, which may include, in each case, indebtedness secured on a pari passu basis with the obligations under CRC's or CEOC LLC's credit facilities. This indebtedness could be used for a variety of purposes, including financing capital expenditures, refinancing or repurchasing our outstanding indebtedness, including existing unsecured indebtedness, or for general corporate purposes. We have raised and expect to continue to raise debt, including secured debt, to directly or indirectly refinance our outstanding unsecured debt on an opportunistic basis, as well as development and acquisition opportunities. Additional indebtedness would require greater servicing payments, and accordingly, may affect our future liquidity and limit our ability to pursue certain opportunities and implement any growth plans in the future.. Repayment of our and our subsidiaries' debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries.. Our subsidiaries currently own a significant portion of our assets and conduct a significant portion of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our and our subsidiaries' indebtedness is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and, in the case of CEC's debt, their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, if needed, or otherwise. Our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our other subsidiaries' indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our or our other subsidiaries' indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries.. We may not realize any or all of our anticipated value creation opportunities, which would have a negative effect on our results of operations.. As part of our enterprise-wide strategy, we have implemented a program of continuous improvement designed to identify value creation opportunities to improve operations and results, including without limitation through identifying opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs. Any cost savings or other value creation that we ultimately realize from such efforts may differ materially from originally anticipated amounts or be offset by other unanticipated developments. These plans are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change at any time. We cannot assure you that cost-savings or other value creation  initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all.. It is unclear what long-term impact our business structure will have on our key business relationships and our ability to compete with other gaming operators.. As a result of the consummation of the Plan, we are among a few gaming operators that lease a significant portion of its properties from a single lessor under lease arrangements. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and to what extent our relationship with PropCo, including any actual or perceived conflicts of interest, will affect our relationships with suppliers, customers, or regulators. 15. or our ability to compete with other gaming operators that are not subject to a master lease arrangement with a single lessor. In addition, PropCo has numerous consent, audit, and other rights under the Lease Documents. As a result, a number of CEOC LLC's and CRC's strategic and operational decisions are subject to review and/or agreement with PropCo, and there can be no assurance that PropCo's exercise of its rights under the Lease Documents will not be adverse to CEOC LLC's or CRC's business or operations, particularly where our interests and the interests of PropCo (or those who control it) are not aligned.. The development and construction of new hotels, casinos, and gaming and non-gaming venues and the expansion of existing ones could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations due to various factors including delays, cost overruns, and other uncertainties.. We intend to develop, construct, and open new hotels, casinos, and other gaming venues and develop and manage non-gaming venues in response to opportunities that may arise. Future development projects may require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, the incurrence of contingent liabilities and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense, which could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. The development and construction of new hotels, casinos and gaming venues and the expansion of existing ones is susceptible to various risks and uncertainties, such as:. • the existence of acceptable market conditions and demand for the completed project;. • general construction risks, including cost overruns, change orders and plan or specification modification, shortages of construction resources, labor disputes, unforeseen environmental, engineering or geological problems, work stoppages, fire and other natural disasters, construction scheduling problems, and weather interferences;. • changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities;. • the ability to finance the projects, especially in light of our substantial indebtedness;. • delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete and/or operate the project; and. • disruption of our existing operations and facilities.. Moreover, our development and expansion projects are sometimes jointly pursued with third parties or by licensing our brands to third parties. These joint development, expansion project, or license agreements are subject to risks, in addition to those disclosed above, as they are dependent on our ability to reach and maintain agreements with third parties.. Our failure to complete any new development or expansion project, or complete any joint development or expansion projects or projects where we license our brands, as planned, on schedule, within budget, or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.. We may pursue strategic acquisitions of third-party assets and businesses as a complement to our future growth strategy, which could raise material investment risk and affect our businesses and operations, if integration is unsuccessful or the acquired assets and businesses perform poorly.. We intend to implement a growth plan centered on an organic growth strategy for our non-gaming entertainment, hospitality, and leisure offerings. We also intend to pursue strategic acquisitions as a complement to the extent such acquisitions present attractive opportunities that would bolster our organic growth strategy. Additionally, we will also look to become a more active participant in certain high-growth social and mobile gaming opportunities in order to leverage our extensive experience and management expertise in the gaming industry and build an enhanced high-growth portfolio.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquired businesses with our businesses. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and may not result in the full benefits expected. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things:. • coordinating marketing functions;. • undisclosed liabilities;. • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems;. • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing, and administration methods;. 16. • retaining key employees;. • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures;. • the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; and. • coordinating geographically separate organizations.. Additionally, even if integration is successful, the overall integration of acquired assets and businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other business relationships and diversion of management attention. There is also no guarantee that the acquired assets or businesses will generate any of the projected synergies and earnings growth, and the failure to realize such projected synergies and earnings growth may adversely affect our operating and financial results and derail any growth plans.. The risks associated with our existing and potential future international operations could reduce our profits.. Some of our properties are located outside the United States, and we are currently pursuing additional international opportunities. International operations are subject to inherent risks including:. • political and economic instability;. • variation in local economies;. • currency fluctuation;. • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection;. • trade barriers; and. • burden of complying with a variety of international laws.. For example, the political instability in Egypt due to the uprising in January 2011 has negatively affected our properties there.. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. From time to time, we are a defendant in various lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to our business. Some of these matters involve commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property claims, legal compliance, personal injury claims, and employment claims. As with all legal proceedings, no assurance can be provided as to the outcome of these matters and, in general, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Compromises of our information systems or unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers' personal information could materially harm our reputation and business.. We collect and store confidential, personal information relating to our customers for various business purposes, including marketing and financial purposes, and credit card information for processing payments. For example, we handle, collect and store personal information in connection with our customers staying at our hotels and enrolling in Total Rewards. We may share this personal and confidential information with vendors or other third parties in connection with processing of transactions, operating certain aspects of our business, or for marketing purposes. Our collection and use of personal data are governed by state and federal privacy laws and regulations as well as the applicable laws and regulations in other countries in which we operate. Privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. We may incur significant costs in order to ensure compliance with the various applicable privacy requirements. In addition, privacy laws and regulations may limit our ability to market to our customers.. We assess and monitor the security of collection, storage, and transmission of customer information on an ongoing basis. We utilize commercially available software and technologies to monitor, assess and secure our network. Further, some of the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, and other such systems are determined and controlled by us. Although we have taken steps designed to safeguard our customers' confidential personal information and important internal company data, our network and other systems and those of third parties, such as service providers, could be compromised, damaged, or disrupted by a third-party breach of our system security or that of a third-party provider or. 17. as a result of purposeful or accidental actions of third parties, our employees, or those employees of a third party, power outages, computer viruses, system failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. Advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools, and other developments may increase the risk of a security breach. As a result of any security breach, customer information or other proprietary data may be accessed or transmitted by or to a third party. Despite these measures, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protecting our information.. Any loss, disclosure of, misappropriation of, or access to customers' or other proprietary information or other breach of our information security could result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, or liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, including for failure to protect personal information or for misusing personal information, which could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees, and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.. Our reliance on our computer systems and software could expose us to great financial harm if any of our computer systems or software were subject to any material disruption or corruption.. We rely significantly on our computer systems and software to receive and properly process internal and external data, including data related to Total Rewards. A disruption or corruption of the proper functioning of our computer systems or software could cause us to lose data or record erroneous data, which could result in material losses. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to maintain competitive computer systems and software will be successful. Our computer systems and software may fail or be subject to bugs or other errors, resulting in service interruptions or other unintended consequences. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may sell or divest different properties or assets as a result of our evaluation of our portfolio of businesses. Such sales or divestitures could affect our costs, revenues, profitability, and financial position.. From time to time, we evaluate our properties and our portfolio of businesses and may, as a result, sell or attempt to sell, divest, or spin-off different properties or assets (subject to any restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness and leases). These sales or divestitures affect our costs, revenues, profitability, financial position, liquidity, and our ability to comply with our debt covenants. Divestitures have inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses, and potential post-closing claims for indemnification. In addition, current economic conditions and relatively illiquid real estate markets may result in fewer potential bidders and unsuccessful sales efforts. Expected costs savings, which are offset by revenue losses from divested properties, may also be difficult to achieve or maximize due to our fixed cost structure.. Reduction in discretionary consumer spending resulting from a downturn in the national economy, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, adverse changes in the global economy, and other factors could negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to access financing.. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences are driven by factors beyond our control, such as perceived or actual general economic conditions; high energy, fuel and other commodity costs; the cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; a soft job market; an actual or perceived decrease in disposable consumer income and wealth; increases in payroll taxes; increases in gaming taxes or fees; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; and terrorist attacks or other global events. Our business is susceptible to any such changes because our casino properties offer a highly-discretionary set of entertainment and leisure activities and amenities. Gaming and other leisure activities we offer represent discretionary expenditures and participation in such activities may decline if discretionary consumer spending declines, including during economic downturns, during which consumers generally earn less disposable income. Particularly, we have business concentrations in gaming offerings and in Las Vegas, which are sensitive to declines in discretionary consumer spending and changes in consumer preferences. During periods of economic contraction, our revenues may decrease while most of our costs remain fixed and some costs even increase, resulting in decreased earnings. While economic conditions have improved, there are no assurances that the gaming industry will continue to grow.. Our strategies to grow our business may be unsuccessful, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business. In addition to increasing our revenues from operations, we plan to grow our business through (i) real estate development domestically and internationally, (ii) traditional mergers and acquisitions, (iii) expanding our Total Rewards partnerships, and (iv) pursuing licensing and management agreements to utilize our brands on third party-owned properties. Our ability to execute on our growth strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to. 18. finance development projects and to obtain all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations, and upon risks inherent in acquisitions including the ability to finance acquisitions, the ability to integrate acquisitions, the ability to realize anticipated benefits of the acquisitions and the diversion of management's attention from Company resources. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in identifying acceptable third parties for Total Rewards and for licensing and managing properties. As a result, we may not be able to realize the growth we expect from our strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and taxation policies, the enforcement of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive gaming regulations and political and regulatory uncertainty. Regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and may revoke, suspend, condition, or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, in many jurisdictions where we operate, licenses are granted for limited durations and require renewal from time to time. There can be no assurance that continued gaming activity will be approved in any referendum in the future. If we do not obtain the requisite approval in any future referendum, we will not be able to operate our gaming operations in Iowa, which would negatively impact our future performance.. From time to time, individual jurisdictions have also considered legislation or referendums, such as bans on smoking in casinos and other entertainment and dining facilities, which could adversely impact our operations. These smoking bans have adversely affected revenues and operating results at our properties. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance.. Furthermore, because we are subject to regulation in each jurisdiction in which we operate, and because regulatory agencies within each jurisdiction review our compliance with gaming laws in other jurisdictions, it is possible that gaming compliance issues in one jurisdiction may lead to reviews and compliance issues in other jurisdictions.. The casino entertainment industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the industry. If adopted, such changes could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to utilize net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards may be limited as a result of the CAC Merger and CEOC's emergence from bankruptcy.. In general, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code provides an annual limitation with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its tax attributes, as well as certain built-in losses, against future taxable income in the event of a change in ownership. CEOC's emergence from bankruptcy and the CAC Merger resulted in a change in ownership for purposes of Section 382. The Company analyzed alternatives available to CEC within the Internal Revenue Code to minimize the impact of the ownership change and cancellation of indebtedness income on its tax attributes. The Company anticipates a limitation that subjects existing tax attributes at emergence to a Section 382 limitation but will not result in any of the NOL carryforwards expiring unused.. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. Any violation of the Bank Secrecy Act or other similar anti-money laundering laws and regulations could have a negative impact on us.. We deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering (\"AML\") regulations. In recent years, governmental authorities have been increasingly focused on AML policies and procedures, with a particular focus on the gaming industry. Any violation of AML or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-corruption laws and regulations could have a negative impact on us.. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which we conduct business. We are subject to requirements imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S.. 19. companies and their affiliates from offering, promising, authorizing, or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. Policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors, or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. If our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, we may face investigations, prosecutions, and other legal proceedings and actions that could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies, and criminal sanctions. Any determination that we have violated any anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions.. Our stockholders are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and if a stockholder is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, that stockholder would not be able to beneficially own our common stock directly or indirectly.. In many jurisdictions, gaming laws can require any of our stockholders to file an application, be investigated, and qualify or have his, her or its suitability determined by gaming authorities. Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant should be deemed suitable. For any cause deemed reasonable by the gaming authorities, subject to certain administrative proceeding requirements, the gaming regulators have the authority to deny any application; limit, condition, restrict, revoke, or suspend any license, registration, finding of suitability or approval; or fine any person licensed, registered, or found suitable or approved. For additional information on the criteria used in making determinations regarding suitability, see \"Governmental Regulation.\". For example, under Nevada gaming laws, each person who acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of any voting security, or beneficial or record ownership of any non-voting security or any debt security, in a public corporation that is registered with the Nevada Gaming Commission (\"NGC\"), may be required to be found suitable if the NGC has reason to believe that his or her acquisition of that ownership, or his or her continued ownership in general, would be inconsistent with the declared public policy of Nevada, in the sole discretion of the NGC. Any person required by the NGC to be found suitable must apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the NGC's request that he or she should do so and, together with his or her application for suitability, deposit with the Nevada Gaming Control Board (\"NGCB\") a sum of money which, in the sole discretion of the NGCB, will be adequate to pay the anticipated costs and charges incurred in the investigation and processing of that application for suitability, and deposit such additional sums as are required by the NGCB to pay final costs and charges.. Furthermore, any person required by a gaming authority to be found suitable, who is found unsuitable by the gaming authority, may not hold, directly or indirectly, the beneficial ownership of any voting security or the beneficial or record ownership of any non-voting security or any debt security of any public corporation that is registered with the gaming authority beyond the time prescribed by the gaming authority. A violation of the foregoing may constitute a criminal offense. A finding of unsuitability by a particular gaming authority impacts that person's ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in that particular jurisdiction and could impact the person's ability to associate or affiliate with gaming licensees in other jurisdictions.. Many jurisdictions also require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than a certain percentage of voting securities of a gaming company and, in some jurisdictions, non-voting securities, typically 5%, to report the acquisition to gaming authorities, and gaming authorities may require such holders to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability, subject to limited exceptions for \"institutional investors\" that hold a company's voting securities for investment purposes only. Under Maryland gaming laws, we may not sell or otherwise transfer more than 5% of the legal or beneficial interest in Horseshoe Baltimore without the approval of the Maryland Lottery and Gaming Control Commission after they determine that the transferee is qualified or grants the transferee an institutional investor waiver.. Some jurisdictions may also limit the number of gaming licenses in which a person may hold an ownership or a controlling interest. For example, in Indiana, a person may not have an ownership interest in more than two Indiana riverboat owner's licenses, and in Maryland, an individual or business entity may not own an interest in more than one video lottery facility.. If we are unable to effectively compete against our competitors, our profits will decline.. The gaming industry is highly competitive and our competitors vary considerably in size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, and geographic diversity. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation areas, and with various other entertainment businesses. Our competitors in each region in which we participate may have greater financial, marketing, or other resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that they will not engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us. Although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various regions in which we participate, we cannot ensure that we will be able to continue to do so or. 20. that we will be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. Our failure to compete successfully in our various regions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.. In recent years, many casino operators, including us, have been reinvesting in existing jurisdictions to attract new customers or to gain market share, thereby increasing competition in those jurisdictions. As companies have completed new expansion projects, supply has typically grown at a faster pace than demand in some areas. For example, in Baltimore, Maryland, the opening of MGM Resorts National Harbor Resort & Casino has resulted in significant declines in revenue at our Horseshoe Baltimore property. In Las Vegas, our largest jurisdiction, competition has increased significantly. For example, the Genting Group is developing a casino and hotel called Resorts World Las Vegas and Marriott International and New York-based global real estate firm Witkoff are developing a casino and hotel called The Drew Las Vegas. Both are expected to open in 2020 on the northern end of the Las Vegas Strip. Further, Wynn Resorts has begun construction on Wynn Paradise Park adjacent to its existing property and announced plans for a Wynn West casino and hotel property. In response to changing trends, Las Vegas operators have been focused on expanding their non-gaming offerings, including upgrades to hotel rooms, new food and beverage offerings, and new entertainment offerings. In June 2016, MGM announced that the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino will undergo $450 million in non-gaming renovations focused on room, food and beverage and entertainment enhancements and is expected to re-open in late 2018 as two newly branded hotels. There have also been proposals for other large scale non-gaming development projects in Las Vegas by various other developers. The expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties, and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we operate, and this intense competition is expected to continue. These competitive pressures have and are expected to continue to adversely affect our financial performance in certain areas, including Atlantic City. Growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings could also negatively impact our gaming revenue.. In particular, our business may be adversely impacted by the additional gaming and room capacity in Nevada, Louisiana, and Atlantic City and by the initiation and growth of online gaming in Nevada, Louisiana and other states. In addition, our operations located in New Jersey may be adversely impacted by the expansion of gaming in Maryland, New York, and Pennsylvania, our operations in Louisiana may be adversely impacted by the expansion of gaming in Mississippi and the Gulf Coast, and our operations located in Nevada may be adversely impacted by the expansion of gaming in California. We also anticipate additional competition in Atlantic City as the Hard Rock (formerly the Taj Mahal) is anticipated to open in the summer of 2018 and the Revel casino is anticipated to reopen at some point in the near future. Both openings will add competition and will negatively impact our Atlantic City operations.. In addition, the gaming industry has expanded into new jurisdictions in which gaming was not previously permitted. This growth is likely to continue in the future and will result in increased competition for our facilities in the jurisdictions in which we operate.. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We believe that the leadership of our executive officers has been a critical element of our success. Any unforeseen loss of our chief executive officer's services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our businesses that we believe will make significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We do not have key man or similar life insurance policies covering members of our senior management. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us, and there can be no assurance that any such officers will remain with us.. If we cannot attract, retain, and motivate employees, we may be unable to compete effectively, and lose the ability to improve and expand our businesses.. Our success and ability to grow depend, in part, on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business in many locations around the world. We face intense competition for highly qualified, specialized technical, managerial, and consulting personnel. Recruiting, training, retention, and benefit costs place significant demands on our resources. Additionally, our substantial indebtedness and CEOC's Chapter 11 proceedings have made recruiting executives to our businesses more difficult. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us.. Our business may be subject to seasonal fluctuations that could result in volatility and have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business may be subject to some degree of seasonality. Weather conditions may deter or prevent customers from reaching. 21. the facilities or undertaking trips. Such conditions would particularly affect customers who are traveling longer distances to visit our casino properties. Seasonality may cause our casino properties working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume and timing of sales. Business in our properties can also fluctuate due to specific holidays or other significant events, such as Easter (particularly when the holiday falls in a different quarter than the prior year), the World Series of Poker tournament (with respect to our Las Vegas properties), city-wide conventions, a large sporting event or a concert, or visits by our premium players. We also believe that any seasonality, holiday, or other significant event may affect our various properties or regions differently. These factors, among other things, make forecasting more difficult and may adversely affect our casino properties ability to manage working capital and to predict financial results accurately, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results.. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. We may be indirectly impacted by regulatory requirements aimed at reducing the impacts of climate change directed at up-stream utility providers, as we could experience potentially higher utility, fuel, and transportation costs.. Win rates (hold rates) for our casino operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. Accordingly, we employ theoretical win rates to estimate what a certain type of game, on average, will win or lose in the long run. In addition to the element of chance, win rates (hold percentages) are also affected by the spread of table limits and factors that are beyond our control, such as a player's skill, experience, and behavior, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the volume of bets placed, and the amount of time players spend gambling. As a result of the variability in these factors, the actual win rates at our casinos may differ from the theoretical win rates we have estimated and could result in the winnings of our gaming customers exceeding those anticipated. The variability of win rates (hold rates) also have the potential to negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We face the risk of fraud, theft, and cheating.. We face the risk that gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or theft or cheat in order to increase winnings. Such acts of fraud, theft, or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers, or other casino or gaming area staff. Additionally, we also face the risk that customers may attempt or commit fraud or theft with respect to our non-gaming offerings or against other customers. Such risks include stolen credit or charge cards or cash, falsified checks, theft of retail inventory and purchased goods, and unpaid or counterfeit receipts. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our operations. Negative publicity related to such acts or schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We may not be able to protect the intellectual property rights we own or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business.. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. We rely primarily on trade secret, trademark, domain name, copyright, and contract law to protect the intellectual property and proprietary technology we own. We also actively pursue business opportunities in the United States and in international jurisdictions involving the licensing of our trademarks to third parties. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. For example, while we have a policy of entering into confidentiality, intellectual property invention assignment, and/or non-competition and non-solicitation agreements or restrictions with our employees, independent contractors, and business partners, such agreements may not provide adequate protection or may be breached, or our proprietary technology may otherwise become available to or be independently developed by our competitors. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights or intellectual property to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our trademarks and our market acceptance, competitive advantages, or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. Third parties have alleged and may in the future allege that we are infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Third parties may initiate litigation against us without warning or may send us letters or other communications that make allegations without initiating litigation. We may elect not to respond to these letters or other communications if we believe they are without merit, or we may attempt to resolve these disputes out of court by negotiating a. 22. license, but in either case it is possible that such disputes will ultimately result in litigation. Any such claims could interfere with our ability to use technology or intellectual property that is material to the operation of our business. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties, such as entities that purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of bringing infringement claims. We also periodically employ individuals who were previously employed by our competitors or potential competitors, and we may therefore be subject to claims that such employees have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management. If unsuccessful, such litigation could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights, require us to pay substantial damages, subject us to injunctions that prevent us from using certain intellectual property, require us to make admissions that affect our reputation in the marketplace, and require us to enter into license agreements that may not be available on favorable terms. Finally, even if we prevail in any litigation, the remedy may not be commercially meaningful or fully compensate us for the harm we suffer or the costs we incur. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our performers and other entertainment offerings on acceptable terms or at all.. Our properties' entertainment offerings are only under contract for a limited time. For example, our contract with Britney Spears  expired in December 2017, and our contract with Jennifer Lopez is set to expire in 2018. These and other of our performers draw customers to our properties and are a significant source of our revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our performers or other shows on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the third parties that we depend on for our properties' entertainment offerings may become incapable or unwilling to provide their services at the level agreed upon or at all. These and other of our entertainment offerings draw customers to the properties and are a significant source of our revenue.. We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers.. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis at many of our properties. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than customers who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. Gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a \"marker,\" judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of the jurisdictions in which we allow play on a credit basis, and judgments on gaming debts in such jurisdictions are enforceable in all U.S. states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution. However, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.. Acts of terrorism, war, natural disasters, severe weather, and political, economic and military conditions may impede our ability to operate or may negatively impact our financial results.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties. For example, a substantial number of the customers of our properties in Las Vegas use air travel. As a result of terrorist acts that occurred on September 11, 2001, domestic and international travel was severely disrupted, which resulted in a decrease in customer visits to our properties in Las Vegas. Visitation to Las Vegas also declined following the mass shooting tragedy on October 1, 2017. We cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, security alerts or war, uprisings, or hostilities in places such as Iraq, Afghanistan, and/or Syria or other countries throughout the world, and governmental responses to those acts or hostilities, will directly or indirectly impact our business and operating results. For example, our operations in Cairo, Egypt, were negatively affected from the uprising there in January 2011. As a consequence of the threat of terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility in the future, premiums for a variety of insurance products have increased, and some types of insurance are no longer available. If any such event were to affect our properties, we would likely be adversely affected.. In addition, natural and man-made disasters such as major fires, floods, severe snowstorms, hurricanes, earthquakes, and oil spills could also adversely impact our business and operating results. For example, Harrah's Metropolis Hotel & Casino and Horseshoe Southern Indiana each closed in late February 2018 for an extended period of time due to flooding from the Ohio River. In most cases, we have insurance that covers portions of any losses from a natural disaster, but it is subject to deductibles and maximum. 23. payouts in many cases. Although we may be covered by insurance from a natural disaster, the timing of our receipt of insurance proceeds, if any, may be out of our control. In some cases, however, we may receive no proceeds from insurance.. Additionally, a natural disaster affecting one or more of our properties may affect the level and cost of insurance coverage we may be able to obtain in the future, which may adversely affect our financial position.. As our operations depend in part on our customers' ability to travel, severe or inclement weather can also have a negative impact on our results of operations.. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets, which could negatively affect our future profits.. We perform our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of October 1. We perform this assessment more frequently if impairment indicators exist. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We determine the estimated fair value of each reporting unit based on a combination of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (\"EBITDA\"), valuation multiples, and estimated future cash flows discounted at rates commensurate with the capital structure and cost of capital of comparable market participants, giving appropriate consideration to the prevailing borrowing rates within the casino industry in general. We also evaluate the aggregate fair value of all of our reporting units and other non-operating assets in comparison to our aggregate debt and equity market capitalization at the test date. EBITDA multiples and discounted cash flows are common measures used to value businesses in our industry.. We perform our annual impairment assessment of other non-amortizing intangible assets as of October 1. We perform this assessment more frequently if impairment indicators exist. We determine the estimated fair value of our non-amortizing intangible assets by primarily using the \"Relief from Royalty Method\" and \"Excess Earnings Method\" under the income approach.. We review the carrying value of our long-lived assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. As necessary, we typically estimate the fair value of assets starting with a \"Replacement Cost New\" approach and then deduct appropriate amounts for both functional and economic obsolescence to arrive at the fair value estimates. Other factors considered by management in performing this assessment, may include current operating results, trends, prospects, and third-party appraisals, as well as the effect of demand, competition, and other economic, legal, and regulatory factors.. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in our business resulted in impairment charges during the year ended December 31, 2014. If one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements.. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits.. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions and, accordingly, we are subject to the risk of work stoppages or other labor disruptions from time to time. Approximately half of our hourly Team members employed in the U.S. are covered by a collective bargaining agreement (\"CBA\"). Our CBAs are the product of good faith negotiations with the respective unions that represent employees in many of our facilities.. We currently have 32 CBAs covering various employees in Las Vegas expiring in 2018. Three unions represent the employees covered by 30 of those expiring agreements. Five agreements covering employees outside of Las Vegas will expire in 2018. All agreements are subject to automatic extension unless one party gives 60 days' prior notice of intent to terminate. No such notice has been given. We intend to negotiate renewal agreements or agree to extensions for all CBAs expiring and are hopeful that we will be able to reach agreements with the respective unions without any work stoppage. Work stoppages and other labor disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. From time to time, we have also experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. These efforts have achieved some success to date. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. The impact of this union activity is undetermined and could negatively impact our profits.. We may be subject to material environmental liability, including as a result of unknown environmental contamination.. Our business is subject to certain federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety laws, regulations, and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as emissions to air, discharges to streams and rivers, and releases of hazardous substances and pollutants into the environment, as well as handling and disposal from municipal/non-hazardous waste, and that also apply to current and previous owners or operators of real estate generally. Federal examples. 24. of these laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Our failure to comply with these laws, including any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Certain of these laws may impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused particular contamination or release of hazardous substances and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time that they occurred. Should unknown contamination be discovered on any of the properties, or should a release of hazardous substances occur on any of the properties, we could be required to investigate and clean up the contamination and could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury, or investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with the contamination or release, which may be substantial. Moreover, such contamination may also impair our ability to use or develop the affected property. Such liability could be joint and several in nature, regardless of fault, and could affect us even if such property is vacated. The potential for substantial costs and an inability to use the property could adversely affect our business. New and more stringent environmental, health, and safety regulations and permit requirements or stricter interpretations of current laws or regulations, such as those related to climate change, could also impose substantial additional costs on our business.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses we could suffer, and, in the future, our insurance costs may increase significantly, or we may be unable to obtain the same level of insurance coverage.. We may suffer damage to our property caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism) that could severely disrupt our business or subject it to claims by third parties who are injured or harmed. Although we maintain insurance (including property, casualty, terrorism, and business interruption), it may be inadequate or unavailable to cover all of the risks to which our business and assets may be exposed. In several cases, we maintain extremely high deductibles or self-insure against specific losses. Should an uninsured loss (including a loss that is less than our deductible) or loss in excess of insured limits occur, it could have a significant adverse impact on our operations and revenues.. We generally renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. If the cost of coverage becomes too high, we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage in order to reduce the premiums to an acceptable amount. Among other factors, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events, or any change in the current U.S. statutory requirement that insurance carriers offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism could adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits) and additional exclusions from coverage. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may elect to not, or may be unable to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.. The success of third parties adjacent to our properties is important to our ability to generate revenue and operate our business and any deterioration to their success could materially adversely affect our revenue and result of operations.. In certain cases, we do not own the businesses and amenities adjacent to our properties. However, the adjacent third-party businesses and amenities stimulate additional traffic through our complexes, including the casinos, which are our largest generators of revenue. Any decrease in the popularity of, or the number of customers visiting, these adjacent businesses and amenities may lead to a corresponding decrease in the traffic through our complexes, which would negatively affect our business and operating results. Further, if newly opened properties are not as popular as expected, we will not realize the increase in traffic through our properties that we expect as a result of their opening, which would negatively affect our business projections.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, expand into new markets, improve our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses, personnel, and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. There can be no assurances that we could pursue a future offering of securities at an appropriate price to raise the necessary financing. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when required, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our respective business, financial condition, and operating results.. 25. Our obligation to contribute to multi-employer pension plans, or discontinuance of such obligations, may have an adverse impact on us.. We contribute to and participate in various multi-employer pension plans for employees represented by certain unions. We are required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under CBAs. We do not administer these plans and, generally, are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act enacted in 2006 (\"PPA\") requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. Based on the information available to us, some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either \"critical\" or \"endangered\" as those terms are defined in the PPA. Specifically, the HEREIU Intermediary Plan (a spin-off of the Pension Plan of the UNITE HERE National Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 2018) is less than 65% funded. We cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. However, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. Furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, due to the withdrawal of all its contributing employers (a mass withdrawal), or in the event of a withdrawal by us, which we consider from time to time, we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities, and that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock.. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities.. As of March 1, 2018, there were 697 million shares of our common stock outstanding, all of which are the same class of voting common stock. All of the outstanding shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale under Rule 144 or Rule 701 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (\"Securities Act\"), subject to volume limitations, applicable holding period requirements or other contractual restrictions.. In connection with the CAC Merger, the Plan, and CEOC's emergence from bankruptcy, we issued a significant number of shares of our common stock and a significant amount of notes that are convertible into shares of our common stock. We may issue shares of common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments or for any other reason that our Board of Directors deems advisable. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or other securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock or other securities will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares of common stock issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. The price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent a holder of our common stock from being able to sell their shares. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • conditions that impact demand for our products and services;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • changes in government and environmental regulation, including gaming taxes;. 26. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;. • arrival and departure of key personnel;. • changes in our capital structure;. • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team;. • the expiration of contractual lockup agreements; and. • changes in general market, economic, and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and responses to such events.. In addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in the gaming, lodging, hospitality, and entertainment industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price.. Holders of our common stock should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock.. We have no present plans to pay cash dividends to our stockholders and, for the foreseeable future, intend to retain all of our earnings for use in our business. The declaration of any future dividends by us is within the discretion of our Board and will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well as any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. Our actual financial results after CEOC's emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial information as a result of the implementation of the Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby.. In connection with the disclosure statement CEOC filed with the Bankruptcy Court, and the hearing to consider confirmation of the Plan, CEOC prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan and CEOC's ability to continue operations upon its emergence from bankruptcy. In connection with the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger of CAC and CEC filed with the SEC, we also disclosed certain projections. These projections were prepared solely for the purpose for which they were filed and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. Although the financial projections disclosed in the disclosure statement filed with the Bankruptcy Court and the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger of CAC and CEC represented certain views based on then current known facts and assumptions about the future operations of CEOC and the Company, there is no guarantee that the financial projections will be realized. We may not be able to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows assumed in projecting future business prospects. To the extent we do not meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows, we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned and may be unable to service our debt obligations as they come due or may not be able to meet our operational needs. Any one of these failures may preclude us from, among other things: (a) taking advantage of future opportunities; (b) growing our businesses; or (c) responding to future changes in the gaming industry. Further, our failure to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which constraints may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital, when it is required.. 27. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT. This Form 10-K contains or may contain \"forward-looking statements\" intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. Further, statements that include words such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"project,\" \"might,\" \"expect,\" \"believe,\" \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"estimate,\" \"continue,\" \"present,\" or \"pursue,\" or the negative of these words or other words or expressions of similar meaning may identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are found at various places throughout this report. These forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to future actions, new projects, strategies, future performance, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and future financial results, wherever they occur in this report, are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors set forth above and from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.. In addition to the risk factors set forth above, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include without limitation:. • the impact of our new operating structure following CEOC's emergence from bankruptcy;. • the effects of local and national economic, credit, and capital market conditions on the economy, in general, and on the gaming industry, in particular;. • the effect of reductions in consumer discretionary spending due to economic downturns or other factors and changes in consumer demands;. • the ability to realize improvements in our business and results of operations through our property renovation investments, technology deployments, business process improvement initiatives, and other continuous improvement initiatives;. • the ability to take advantage of opportunities to grow our revenue;. • the ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income as anticipated;. • the ability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of current or potential future acquisitions;. • the ability to effectively compete against our competitors;. • the financial results of our consolidated businesses;. • the impact of our substantial indebtedness, including its impact on our ability to raise additional capital in the future and react to changes in the economy, and lease obligations and the restrictions in our debt and lease agreements;. • the ability to access available and reasonable financing or additional capital on a timely basis and on acceptable terms or at all, including our ability to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms;. • the ability of our customer tracking, customer loyalty, and yield management programs to continue to increase customer loyalty and same-store or hotel sales;. • changes in the extensive governmental regulations to which we are subject and changes in laws, including increased tax rates, smoking bans, regulations, or accounting standards; third-party relations; and approvals, and decisions, disciplines and fines of courts, regulators, and governmental bodies;. • compliance with the extensive laws and regulations to which we are subject, including applicable gaming laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, and the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering laws;. • our ability to recoup costs of capital investments through higher revenues;. • growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings;. • abnormal gaming holds (\"gaming hold\" is the amount of money that is retained by the casino from wagers by customers);. • the effects of competition, including locations of competitors, growth of online gaming, competition for new licenses, and operating and market competition;. 28. • our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and damages caused to our brands due to the unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties in ways outside of our control;. • the ability to timely and cost-effectively integrate companies that we acquire into our operations;. • the potential difficulties in employee retention, recruitment, and motivation;. • our ability to retain our performers or other entertainment offerings on acceptable terms or at all;. • the risk of fraud, theft, and cheating;. • seasonal fluctuations resulting in volatility and an adverse effect on our operating results;. • any impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets that we may incur;. • construction factors, including delays, increased costs of labor and materials, availability of labor and materials, zoning issues, environmental restrictions, soil and water conditions, weather and other hazards, site access matters, and building permit issues;. • the impact of adverse legal proceedings and judicial and governmental body actions, including gaming legislative action, referenda, regulatory disciplinary actions, and fines and taxation;. • acts of war or terrorist incidents (including the impact of the recent mass shooting in Las Vegas on tourism), severe weather conditions, uprisings, or natural disasters, including losses therefrom, losses in revenues and damage to property, and the impact of severe weather conditions on our ability to attract customers to certain of our facilities;. • fluctuations in energy prices;. • work stoppages and other labor problems;. • our ability to collect on credit extended to our customers;. • the effects of environmental and structural building conditions relating to our properties and our exposure to environmental liability, including as a result of unknown environmental contamination;. • a disruption, failure, or breach of our network, information systems, or other technology, or those of our vendors, on which we are dependent;. • risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of internal, employee, and customer data;. • access to insurance for our assets on reasonable terms;. • the impact, if any, of unfunded pension benefits under multi-employer pension plans; and. • the other factors set forth under Item 1A, \"Risk Factors.\". You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10 - K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law."
