[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.  The following is a description of the known factors that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  They should be considered carefully, in addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" in making any investment decisions with respect to our securities.  Additional risks or uncertainties that are not currently known to us, that we currently deem to be immaterial or that could apply to any company could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Market prices of wholesale shell eggs are volatile and decreases in these prices can adversely impact our results of operations.. Our operating results are significantly affected by wholesale shell egg market prices, which fluctuate widely and are outside our control.  As a result, our prior performance should not be presumed to be an accurate indication of future performance. Small increases in production, or small decreases in demand, can have a large adverse effect on shell egg prices.  Low shell egg prices adversely effect our revenues and profits.. Market prices for wholesale shell eggs have been volatile.  Shell egg prices trended upward from calendar 2002 until late 2003 and early 2004 when they rose to then historical highs.  In the early fall of calendar 2004, the demand trend related to the increased popularity of high protein diets faded dramatically and prices fell.  During the time of increased demand, the egg industry geared up to produce more eggs, resulting in an oversupply of eggs.  After calendar 2006, supplies were more closely balanced with demand and egg prices again reached record levels in 2007 and 2008.  Egg prices had subsequently retreated from those record price levels due to increases in industry supply before reaching. 9. Table of Contents. new highs in 2014.  In 2015, egg prices rose again in large part due to a decrease in supply caused by the avian influenza outbreak in the upper Midwestern U.S. from April to June 2015. While the AI outbreak significantly impacted the supply and prices of eggs, there were  no positive tests for AI at any of our locations.  The average Urner-Barry Thursday prices for the large market (i.e. generic shell eggs) in the southeastern region for the months of June through November 2015 was $2.32 per dozen, with a peak of $2.97 during August.  Subsequent to November 2015, shell egg prices declined.  The Urner Barry price index hit a decade-low level in both our fiscal 2016 fourth quarter and fiscal 2017 second quarter. In fiscal 2018, non-specialty shell egg prices rebounded significantly due to strong demand illustrating the volatility of our industry.. Shell egg prices are impacted by seasonal fluctuations.  Retail sales of shell eggs are greatest during the fall and winter months and lowest in the summer months. Prices for shell eggs fluctuate in response to seasonal factors and a natural increase in shell egg production during the spring and early summer. Shell egg prices tend to increase with the start of the school year and are highest prior to holiday periods, particularly Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter. Consequently, we generally experience lower sales and net income in our first and fourth fiscal quarters ending in August and May, respectively. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our sales and operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful comparisons.. A decline in consumer demand for shell eggs can negatively impact our business.. We believe fast food restaurant consumption, high protein diet trends, industry advertising campaigns, and improved nutritional reputation of eggs related to better scientific understanding of the role of cholesterol in diets have all contributed to shell egg demand. However, there can be no assurance that the demand for shell eggs will not decline in the future. Adverse publicity relating to health concerns and changes in the perception of the nutritional value of shell eggs, as well as movement away from high protein diets, could adversely affect demand for shell eggs, which would have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition.. Feed costs are volatile and increases in these costs can adversely impact our results of operations.. Feed cost represents the largest element of our shell egg (farm) production cost, ranging from 57% to 66% of total farm production cost in the last five fiscal years. Although feed ingredients are available from a number of sources, we have little, if any, control over the prices of the ingredients we purchase, which are affected by weather, speculators, various supply and demand factors, transportation and storage costs, and agricultural and energy policies in the U.S. and internationally.  For example, the severe drought in the summer of 2012 and resulting damage to the national corn and soybean crops resulted in high and volatile feed costs.  Increases in feed costs unaccompanied by increases in the selling price of eggs can have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.  Alternatively, low feed costs can encourage industry overproduction, possibly resulting in lower egg prices.. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, our financial results fluctuate from year to year and between different quarters within a single fiscal year.. The shell egg industry has traditionally been subject to periods of high profitability followed by periods of significant loss. In the past, during periods of high profitability, shell egg producers tended to increase the number of layers in production with a resulting increase in the supply of shell eggs, which generally caused a drop in shell egg prices until supply and demand returned to balance. As a result, our financial results from year to year vary significantly.  Additionally, as a result of seasonal fluctuations, our financial results fluctuate significantly between different quarters within a single fiscal year.. We purchase a portion of the shell eggs we sell from outside producers and our ability to obtain such eggs at prices and in quantities acceptable to us could fluctuate.. We produced approximately 84%  of the total number of shell eggs we sold in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, and purchased the remainder from outside producers. As the wholesale price for shell eggs increases, our cost to acquire shell eggs from outside producers increases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire shell eggs from. 10. Table of Contents. outside producers in sufficient quantities and satisfactory prices, and our inability to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. Our acquisition growth strategy subjects us to various risks.. We plan to continue to pursue a growth strategy, which includes acquisitions of other companies engaged in the production and sale of shell eggs.  Acquisitions require capital resources and can divert management's attention from our existing business. Acquisitions also entail an inherent risk that we could become subject to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct prior to our acquisition of a business that were unknown to us at the time of acquisition. We could incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than we anticipated at the time of its purchase. We cannot assure you that we:. • will identify suitable acquisition candidates;. • can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms;. • can successfully integrate an acquired business into our operations; or. • can successfully manage the operations of an acquired business.. No assurance can be given that companies we acquire in the future will contribute positively to our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, federal antitrust laws require regulatory approval of acquisitions that exceed certain threshold levels of significance.. The consideration we pay in connection with any acquisition also affects our financial results. If we pay cash, we could be required to use a portion of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of our Common Stock, existing stockholders may be diluted. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt.. Our largest customers have historically accounted for a significant portion of our net sales volume. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced purchases by, one or more of our large customers.. For the fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, two customers, Wal-Mart Stores and Sam's Clubs, on a combined basis, accounted for 33.2%, 28.9%, and 28.9% of our net sales dollars, respectively.  For fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, our top ten customers accounted for 69.4%,  69.5%, and 70.6% of net sales dollars, respectively. Although we have established long-term relationships with most of our customers, who continue to purchase from us based on our ability to service their needs, they are free to acquire shell eggs from other sources.  If, for any reason, one or more of our large customers were to purchase significantly less of our shell eggs in the future or terminate their purchases from us, and we are not able to sell our shell eggs to new customers at comparable levels, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, could harm our operating results, financial condition, and reputation.  Further, we may incur significant costs to comply with any such regulations.. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to grading, quality control, labeling, sanitary control, and waste disposal. As a fully-integrated shell egg producer, our shell egg facilities are subject to regulation and inspection by the USDA, EPA, and FDA, as well as regulation by various state and local health and agricultural agencies, among others. All of our shell egg production and feed mill facilities are subject to FDA regulation and inspections. In addition, rules are often proposed that, if adopted as proposed, could increase our costs.. Our operations and facilities are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation, disposal, and remediation of hazardous materials. Under these laws and regulations, we are required to obtain permits from governmental authorities, including, but not limited to pollution/wastewater discharge permits.. 11. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with an applicable law or regulation, or fail to obtain necessary permits, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties or other sanctions, our reputation could be harmed, and our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, because these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly more stringent, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs for compliance with such laws and regulations in the future.. Shell eggs and shell egg products are susceptible to microbial contamination, and we may be required to or voluntarily recall contaminated products.. Shell eggs and shell egg products are vulnerable to contamination by pathogens such as Salmonella.  Shipment of contaminated products, even if inadvertent, could result in a violation of law and lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies.  In addition, products purchased from other producers could contain contaminants that might be inadvertently redistributed by us.  As such, we might decide or be required to recall a product if we or regulators believe it poses a potential health risk.  We do not maintain insurance to cover recall losses.  Any product recall could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products, adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Agricultural risks, including outbreaks of avian disease, could harm our business.. Our shell egg production activities are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Unusual or extreme weather conditions, disease and pests can materially and adversely affect the quality and quantity of shell eggs we produce and distribute.  The Company maintains controls and procedures to reduce the risk of exposing our flocks to harmful diseases.  Despite our efforts, outbreaks of avian disease can still occur and may adversely impact the health of our flocks.  An outbreak of avian disease could have a material adverse impact on our financial results by increasing government restrictions on the sale and distribution of our products.  Negative publicity from an outbreak within our industry can negatively impact customer perception, even if the outbreak does not directly impact our flocks.  If a substantial portion of our production facilities are affected by any of these factors in any given quarter or year, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. From April through June 2015,  our industry experienced a significant avian influenza outbreak, primarily in the upper Midwestern U.S.  Based on several published industry estimates, we believe approximately 12% of the national flock of laying hens was affected.  The affected laying hens were either destroyed by the disease or euthanized.  The effect this outbreak had on our industry and our company is discussed throughout this report.  There have been no positive tests for avian influenza at any of our locations. We have significantly increased the biosecurity measures at all of our facilities; however we cannot be certain that our flocks will not be affected by AI or other diseases in the future.. Our business is highly competitive.. The production and sale of fresh shell eggs, which accounted for virtually all of our net sales in recent years, is intensely competitive. We compete with a large number of competitors that may prove to be more successful than we are in marketing and selling shell eggs. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with any or all of these companies. In addition, increased competition could result in price reductions, greater cyclicality, reduced margins and loss of market share, which would negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 12. Table of Contents. Pressure from animal rights groups regarding the treatment of animals may subject us to additional costs to conform our practices to comply with developing standards or subject us to marketing costs to defend challenges to our current practices and protect our image with our customers.. We and many of our customers face pressure from animal rights groups, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (\"PETA\"), and the Humane Society of the United States (\"HSUS\"), to require all companies that supply food products operate their business in a manner that treats animals in conformity with certain standards developed or approved by these animal rights groups. The standards typically require minimum cage space for hens, among other requirements, but some of these groups have made legislative efforts to ban any form of caged housing in various states.  California's Proposition 2 and Assembly Bill 1437 was effective January 1, 2015, and did increase the cost of production in that State and for producers who sell there.  Additionally, later in calendar 2018, California voters will consider a referendum that mandates, over a period of time, that all egg production in California must be cage-free with specific space requirements for laying hens.  If passed, the referendum will also require that all eggs and egg products sold in the state of California must be cage-free by a certain future date.  This referendum, if adopted, could affect sourcing and production of eggs in California, which would create uncertainty surrounding supply and pricing in other areas of the country.  In recent years, many large restaurant chains, food service companies and grocery chains, including our largest customers, announced goals to transition to a cage-free egg supply chain by specified future dates.  Changing our procedures and infrastructure to conform to these types of laws or anticipated customer demand for these types of guidelines has resulted and will continue to result in additional costs to our internal production of shell eggs, including capital and operating cost increases from housing and husbandry practices and modification of existing or construction of new facilities, and the increased cost for us to purchase shell eggs from our outside suppliers. While some of the increased costs have been passed on to our customers, we cannot provide assurance that we can continue to pass on these costs, or additional costs we will incur, in the future.. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may adversely affect the implementation of our business plan in a timely manner.. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our senior management team. The loss or interruption of service of one or more of our key executive officers could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our growth strategy. We have not entered into any employment or non-compete agreements with any of our executive officers nor do we carry any significant key-man life insurance coverage on any such persons.. We are controlled by the family of our founder, Fred R. Adams, Jr. and, after the death of Mr. Adams, we expect to be controlled by Adolphus B. Baker, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.. Fred R. Adams, Jr., our Founder and Chairman Emeritus, his son-in-law, Adolphus B. Baker, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and their spouses own all  outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, which has ten votes per share. Such persons also own shares of our Common Stock. A conservatorship has been established to manage Mr. Adams' affairs, with his spouse and Mr. Baker as co-conservators, as a result of the impairment of Mr. Adams' health related to his previously disclosed stroke.  Mr. Adams continues to regularly consult with the Company and it is expected that he will continue to do so for as long as he is able.  As a result of the conservatorship, Mr. Adams, his spouse, and Mr. Baker possessed 52.2%, and Messrs. Adams and Baker and their spouses collectively possessed 66.2%, of the total voting power represented by the outstanding shares of our Common Stock and Class A Common Stock.. As described in the Company's Proxy Statement dated June 25, 2018 for a special meeting of shareholders on July 20, 2018 (the \"Special Meeting Proxy Statement\") under the heading \"Proposal No. 1 - Class A Common Stock Amendment - Proposed Transactions\" on pages 25-26, which description (the \"Proposed Transactions Description\") is incorporated by reference herein, upon the completion of transactions described therein prior to Mr. Adams' death, we expect that the Company would continue to be controlled by Mrs. Adams and Mr. Baker, acting jointly. After Mr. Adams' death and completion of the proposed transactions, we expect there would be a change of control of the Company to Mr. Baker as the sole managing member of a limited liability company that would own all of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock.. 13. Table of Contents. We understand that the Adams and Baker families intend to retain ownership of a sufficient amount of Common Stock and Class A Common Stock to assure continued ownership of more than 50% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock. Such ownership will make an unsolicited acquisition of the Company more difficult and discourage certain types of transactions involving a change of control of our Company, including transactions in which the holders of Common Stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. The Adams and Baker families' controlling ownership of our capital stock may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. We are and, after Mr. Adams' death pursuant to the arrangements described above, we expect to continue to be, a \"controlled company,\" as defined in Rule 5615(c)(1) of the NASDAQ's listing standards. Accordingly, we are and, pursuant to such arrangements, we expect to continue to be, exempt from certain requirements of NASDAQ's corporate governance listing standards, including the requirement to maintain a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and the requirements regarding the determination of compensation of executive officers and the nomination of directors by independent directors.. Sales, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. As described in the Proposed Transactions Description in the Special Meeting Proxy Statement, upon the completion of transactions described therein, we expect that Mrs. Adams and Mr. Adams' daughters, and certain other related entities described therein (the \"Stockholder Parties\"), will hold a total of approximately 12 million shares of Common Stock that are subject to the Agreement Regarding Common Stock described in Note 17 to our audited consolidated financial statements in this report.. As described in the Proposed Transactions Description, we currently anticipate that the Stockholder Parties would desire to sell a total of approximately 6.0 million shares of Common Stock, in initial sales under a Company registration statement following Mr. Adams' death.  Although pursuant to the Agreement Regarding Common Stock the Company will have a right of first refusal to purchase all or any of those shares, the Company may elect not to exercise its rights of first refusal and if so such shares would be eligible for sale pursuant to the registration rights under the agreement or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933.  Sales, or the availability for sale, of a large number of shares of our Common Stock could result in a decline in the market price of our Common Stock.. Current and future litigation could expose us to significant liabilities and adversely affect our business reputation.. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings.  Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.  For a discussion of legal proceedings see Item 3 below.  Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, divert management's attention, and may result in significant judgments or settlements.  Legal proceedings may expose us to negative publicity, which could adversely affect our business reputation and customer preference for our products and brands.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other assets could negatively affect our results of operations or net worth.. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of business acquisitions over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.  Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  As of June 2, 2018, we had $35.5 million of goodwill.  While we believe the current carrying value of this goodwill is not impaired, any future goodwill impairment charges could materially adversely affect our results of operations in any particular period or our net worth.. 14. Table of Contents. The loss of any registered trademark or other intellectual property could enable other companies to compete more effectively with us.. We utilize intellectual property in our business.  For example, we own the trademarks Farmhouse®,  Sunups®,  Sunny Meadow® and 4Grain®.  We produce and market Egg-Land's Best® and Land O' Lakes® under license agreements with EB.  We have invested a significant amount of money in establishing and promoting our trademarked brands.  The loss or expiration of any intellectual property could enable other companies to compete more effectively with us by allowing our competitors to make and sell products substantially similar to those we offer.  This could negatively impact our ability to produce and sell the associated products, thereby adversely affecting our operations.. Extreme weather, natural disasters or other events beyond our control could negatively impact our business.. Fire, bioterrorism, pandemic, extreme weather or natural disasters, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of our flocks, production or availability of feed ingredients, or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, discharges from overtopped or breached wastewater treatment lagoons, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Failure of our information technology systems or software, or a security breach of those systems, could adversely affect our day-to-day operations and decision making processes and have an adverse effect on our performance.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, logistics, accounting and other business processes. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology environment, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, ransomware, security breaches or cyber incidents such as intentional cyber-attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises.. A security breach of such information could result in damage to our reputation and negatively impact our relations with our customers or employees. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We currently participate in several joint ventures and may participate in other joint ventures in the future. We could be adversely affected if any of our joint venture partners are unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations or if we have disagreements with any of our joint venture partners that are not satisfactorily resolved.. We currently have investments in and commitments to several joint ventures and we may participate in other joint ventures in the future. Under existing joint venture agreements, we and our joint venture partners could be required to, among other things, provide guarantees of obligations or contribute additional capital and we may have little or no control over the amount or timing of these obligations.  If our joint venture partners are unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations or if we have any unresolved disagreements with our joint venture partners, we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone, expend additional resources to continue development of projects, or we may be required to write down our investments at amounts that could be significant."
