[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following list describes several risk factors, which are applicable to our business and speaks as of the date of this document. These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us.. We generally do not have long-term contracts with customers and our customers may cease purchasing our products and services at any time, which could significantly harm our revenues.. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. As a result, our agreements with our customers generally do not provide us with any assurance of future sales. These customers can cease purchasing products and services from us at any time without penalty, are free to purchase products and services from our competitors, may expose us to competitive price pressure on each order and are not required to make minimum purchases. Any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and some of our competitors have greater resources than us, we cannot be certain that our products and services will continue to be accepted in the marketplace or capture increased market share.. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and price erosion. Given the highly competitive environment in which we operate, we cannot be sure that any competitive advantages currently enjoyed by our products and services will be sufficient to establish and sustain our products and services in the markets we serve. Any increase in price or other competition could result in erosion of our market share, to the extent we have obtained market share, and could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully.. Information about our competitors is included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading \"COMPETITION\".. Our business is subject to many factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate and our stock price to be volatile.. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that could affect our quarterly or annual operating results include:. •  the timing and amount, or cancellation or rescheduling, of orders for our products or services;. •  our ability to develop, introduce, ship and support new products, services and enhancements, and manage product and services transitions;. •  announcements of new product and service introductions and reductions in the price of products and services offered by our competitors;. •  our ability to achieve cost reductions;. •  our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components for our products;. •  our ability to achieve and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products;. •  our ability to maintain the volume of products and services sold and the mix of distribution channels through which they are sold;. •  the loss of any one of our major customers or a significant reduction in orders from those customers;. •  increased competition, particularly from larger, better capitalized competitors;. •  fluctuations in demand for our products and services; and. •  changes in telecommunications and wireless market conditions specifically and economic conditions generally.. Due in part to factors such as the timing of product release dates, purchase orders and product availability, significant volume shipments of products could occur close to the end of a fiscal quarter. Failure to ship products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect operating results. In the future, our customers may delay delivery schedules or cancel their orders without notice. Due to these and other factors, our quarterly revenue, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance.. 11. Table of Contents. Because some of our components, assemblies and electronics manufacturing services are purchased from sole source suppliers or require long lead times, our business is subject to unexpected interruptions, which could cause our operating results to suffer.. Some of our key components are complex to manufacture and have long lead times. In the event of a reduction or interruption of supply, or degradation in quality, it could take up to six months to begin receiving adequate supplies from alternative suppliers, if any. As a result, product shipments could be delayed and revenues and profitability could suffer. Furthermore, if we receive a smaller allocation of component parts than is necessary to manufacture products in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand, customers could choose to purchase competing products and we could lose market share. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we do not meet product and services introduction deadlines, our business could be adversely affected.. In the past, we have experienced design and manufacturing difficulties that have delayed the development, introduction or marketing of new products, services and enhancements and which caused us to incur unexpected expenses. In addition, some of our existing customers have conditioned their future purchases of our products and services on the addition of new features. In the past, we have experienced delays in introducing some new product features. Furthermore, in order to compete in some markets, we will have to develop different versions of existing products and services that comply with diverse, new or varying governmental regulations in each market. Our inability to develop new products, services, product features on a timely basis, or the failure of new products, services or features to achieve market acceptance, could adversely affect our business.. Dependence on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers of manufacturing services and critical components within our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market, damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.. We operate a primarily outsourced manufacturing business model that utilizes contract manufacturers. We depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers to allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality at acceptable yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. In such circumstances, we may be unable to meet our customer demand and may fail to meet our contractual obligations. This could result in the payment of significant damages by us to our customers and our net revenue could decline, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any substantial disruption in our contract manufacturers' supply as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, equipment failure or other cause, could materially harm our business, customer relationships and results of operations.. If demand for our products and services fluctuates rapidly and unpredictably, it may be difficult to manage our business efficiently, which may result in reduced gross margins and profitability.. Our cost structure is based in part on our expectations for future demand. Many costs, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are largely fixed. Rapid and unpredictable shifts in demand for our products and services may make it difficult to plan production capacity and business operations efficiently. If demand is significantly below expectations, we may be unable to rapidly reduce these fixed costs, which can diminish gross margins and cause losses. A sudden downturn may also leave us with excess inventory, which may be rendered obsolete if products and services evolve during the downturn and demand shifts to newer products and services. Our ability to reduce costs and expenses may be further constrained because we must continue to invest in research and development to maintain our competitive position and to maintain service and support for our existing customer base. Conversely, in the event of a sudden upturn, we may incur significant costs to rapidly expedite delivery of components, procure scarce components and outsource additional manufacturing processes. These costs could reduce our gross margins and overall profitability. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Because we currently sell, and we intend to grow the sales of, certain of our products and services in countries other than the United States, we are subject to different regulatory policies. We may not be able to develop products and services that comply with the standards of different countries, which could result in our inability to sell our products and services and further, we may be subject to political, economic, and other conditions affecting such countries, which could result in reduced sales of our products and services and which could adversely affect our business.. If our sales are to grow in the longer term, we believe we must grow our international business. Many countries require communications equipment used in their country to comply with unique regulations, including safety regulations, radio frequency allocation schemes and standards. If we cannot develop products that work with different standards, we will be unable to sell our products and services in those locations. If compliance proves to be more expensive or time consuming than we anticipate, our business would be adversely affected. Some countries have not completed their radio frequency allocation process and therefore we do not know the standards with which we would be required to comply. Furthermore, standards and regulatory requirements are subject to change. If we fail to anticipate or comply with these new standards, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for 27.4%, 26.0% and 17.0% of our total sales for fiscal years ended February 28, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Assuming that we continue to sell our products and services to foreign customers, which is our expectation, we will be subject to the political, economic and other conditions affecting countries or jurisdictions other than the U.S., including those in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Europe and Asia. Any interruption or curtailment of trade between the countries in which we operate and our present trading partners, changes in exchange rates, significant shift in U.S. trade policy toward these countries, or significant downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of these countries, could cause demand for and sales of our products and services to decrease, or subject us to increased regulation including future import and export restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Additionally, a substantial portion of our products, components and subassemblies are currently procured from foreign suppliers located primarily in Hong Kong, mainland China, Malaysia and other Pacific Rim countries. Any significant shift in U.S. trade policy toward these countries or a significant downturn in the political, economic or financial condition of these countries could cause disruption of our supply chain or otherwise disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our business.. Our global operations expose us to risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, economic sanctions, export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act 2010 and other local laws that prohibit payments to governmental officials or certain payments or remunerations to customers. Given the high level of complexity of these laws there is a risk that some provisions may be breached by us, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements, or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, or prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products or services in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, ability to attract and retain employees, business or operating results.. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. There is significant uncertainty about the stability of global credit and financial markets. Credit market dislocations could cause interest rates and the cost of borrowing to rise or reduce the availability of credit, which could negatively affect customer demand for our products and services if they responded to such credit market dislocations by suspending, delaying or reducing their capital expenditures. Moreover, since we currently generate more than 25% of our revenues outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currencies can have an impact on demand for our products and services for which the sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars.. 13. Table of Contents. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and our competitors may be able to offer similar products and services that would harm our competitive position.. Our ability to succeed in wireless data communications markets may depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property for some of our wireless technologies. We currently rely primarily on patents, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, these mechanisms provide us with only limited protection. We currently hold 67 U.S. patents and 225 foreign patents. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with all employees, including officers, managers and engineers. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. The protection of our intellectual property rights may not provide us with any legal remedy should our competitors independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services, or design around any intellectual property rights we hold.. We rely on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and our future results could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to secure such access in the future.. Many of our products and services are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future we may need to seek or renew licenses relating to such intellectual property. Although we believe that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. Some licenses we obtain may be nonexclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent where we do not hold a license, we may be unable to sell some of our hardware solutions and services, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to design and incorporate alternative technologies, without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our competitors have or may obtain patents that could restrict our ability to offer our products, software and services, or subject us to additional costs, which could impede our ability to offer our products, software and services and otherwise adversely affect us. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products and services and subject us to litigation over intellectual property rights or other commercial issues.. Several of our competitors have obtained and can be expected to obtain patents that cover products, software and services directly or indirectly related to those offered by us. There can be no assurance that we are aware of all existing patents held by our competitors or other third parties containing claims that may pose a risk of our infringement on such claims by our products, software and services. In addition, patent applications in the United States may be confidential until a patent is issued and, accordingly, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our hardware solutions, software and services may infringe on future patent rights held by others.. Even with technology that we develop independently, a third party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may initiate litigation to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as engineering and development and the sale of any of our products, software and services. Furthermore, because of rapid technological changes in the MRM and IoT marketplaces, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our products, software, services, and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing such rights.. In the highly competitive and technology-dependent telecommunications field in particular, litigation over intellectual property rights is a significant business risk, and some third parties (referred to as non-practicing, or patent-assertion, entities) are pursuing a litigation strategy with the goal of monetizing otherwise unutilized intellectual property portfolios via licensing arrangements entered into under threat of continued litigation. These lawsuits relate to the validity, enforceability, and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend ourselves against allegations that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties.. 14. Table of Contents. Regardless of merit, responding to such litigation may be costly, unpredictable, time - consuming, and often involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into such licensing agreements or arrangements, although no assurance can be given that these licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If we are found to be infringing any intellectual property rights, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture, or market products and services, product and services launches could be delayed, or we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. If a temporary or permanent injunction is granted by a court prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products, software and services, or a successful claim of infringement against us requires us to pay royalties to a third party, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology.. We may be subject to legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, intellectual property infringement, product liability and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, including increases in demands for attention on our management team, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. See also \"Item 3  -  Legal Proceedings\" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those rules and regulations mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires public companies to include in their annual report a statement of management's responsibilities for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of those internal controls. Section 404 also requires the independent auditors of certain public companies to attest to, and report on, this management assessment. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that will need to be evaluated frequently. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. Any acquisitions we pursue could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we review and intend to continue to review acquisition opportunities that we believe would be advantageous or complementary to the development of our business. In fiscal 2017 we acquired LoJack, and we may acquire additional businesses, assets, or technologies in the future. If we make any acquisitions, we could take any or all of the following actions, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or share price:. •  use a substantial portion of our available cash;. •  require a significant devotion of management's time and resources in the pursuit or consummation of any acquisition;. •  incur substantial debt, which may not be available to us on favorable terms and may adversely affect our liquidity;. 15. Table of Contents. •  issue equity or equity-based securities that would dilute existing stockholders' ownership percentage;. •  assume contingent liabilities; and. •  take substantial charges in connection with acquired assets.. Acquisitions also entail numerous other risks, including, without limitation: difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, products, technologies and personnel; unanticipated costs; diversion of management's attention from existing operations; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and potential loss of key employees from either our existing business or the acquired organization. Acquisitions may result in substantial accounting charges for restructuring and other expenses, amortization of purchased technology and intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of or successfully integrate with our existing business the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, and our failure to do so could harm our business and operating results.. Any acquisitions we make and industry consolidation could adversely affect our existing business relationships with our suppliers and customers.. If we make any acquisitions, our existing business relationships with our suppliers and customers could be adversely affected. Moreover, our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation and the creation of strategic relationships. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this rapidly changing environment, we could suffer a reduction in the volume of business with our customers and suppliers, or we could lose customers or suppliers entirely, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We depend to some extent upon wireless networks owned and controlled by others, unproven business models, and emerging wireless carrier models to deliver existing services and to grow.. If we do not have continued access to sufficient capacity on reliable networks, we may be unable to deliver services and our sales could decrease. Our ability to grow and achieve profitability partly depends on our ability to buy sufficient capacity on the networks of wireless carriers and on the reliability and security of their systems. Some of our wireless services are delivered using airtime purchased from third parties. We depend on these third parties to provide uninterrupted service free from errors or defects and would not be able to satisfy our customers' needs if such third parties failed to provide the required capacity or needed level of service. In addition, our expenses would increase and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if wireless carriers were to significantly increase the prices of their services. Our existing agreements with the wireless carriers generally have one- to three-year terms. Some of these wireless carriers are, or could become, our competitors.. Our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and technical personnel with relevant expertise.. As a competitor in a highly technical market, we depend heavily upon the efforts of our existing senior management and technical teams. The loss of the services of one or more members of these teams could slow product and services development and commercialization objectives. Due to the specialized nature of our products and services, we also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel with substantial industry knowledge and expertise. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business.. Our failure to predict carrier and end user customer preferences among the many evolving wireless industry standards could hurt our ability to introduce and sell new products and services.. In our industry, it is critical to our success that we accurately anticipate evolving wireless technology standards and that our products and services comply with these standards in relevant respects. We are currently focused on engineering and manufacturing products and services that comply with several different wireless standards. Any failure of our products and services to comply with any one of these or future applicable standards could prevent or delay their introduction and require costly and time-consuming engineering changes. Additionally, if an insufficient number of wireless operators or subscribers adopt the standards to which we engineer our products and services, then sales of our new products and services designed to those standards could be materially harmed.. 16. Table of Contents. Our business could be adversely impacted by the interruption, failure or corruption of our proprietary Internet-based systems that are used to configure and communicate with the wireless tracking and monitoring devices that we sell.. Our telematics products and software services depend upon Internet-based systems that are proprietary to our business. These applications, which are hosted at independent data centers and are connected via access points to cellular networks, are used by our customers and by us to configure and communicate with wireless devices for purposes of determining location, speed or other conditions of vehicles and other mobile or fixed assets, and to deliver configuration code or executable commands to the devices. If these Internet-based systems failed or were otherwise compromised in some way, it could adversely affect the proper functioning of the wireless tracking and monitoring devices that we sell, and could result in damages being incurred by us as a result of the temporary or permanent inability of our customers to wirelessly communicate with these devices.. Evolving regulation and changes in applicable laws relating to the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts or otherwise limit the solutions we can offer, which may harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition.. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increased regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our SaaS and Platform-as-a-Service (\"PaaS\") business model. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business.. Evolving regulation relating to data privacy may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts or otherwise limit the solutions we can offer, which may harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition.. Our products and solutions enable us to collect, manage and store a wide range of data related to fleet management such as vehicle location and fuel usage, speed and mileage and, in the case of our field service application, includes customer information, job data, schedule, invoice and other information. A valuable component of our solutions is our ability to analyze this data to present the user with actionable business intelligence. We obtain our data from a variety of sources, including our customers and third-party providers. The United States and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union and the United Kingdom, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that increase or change the requirements governing data collection and storage in these jurisdictions. Proposed or new legislation and regulations could also significantly affect our business. There currently are a number of proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies. In addition, the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") will take effect in May 2018. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union. For example, we may be required to obtain consent and/or offer new controls to existing and new users in Europe before processing data. In addition, the GDPR will include significant penalties for non-compliance.. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply, or are perceived to fail to comply, with current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, or other liabilities. Moreover, if future laws and regulations limit our customers' ability to use and share this data, or our ability to store, process and share data with our customers over the Internet, demand for our solutions could decrease, our costs could increase, and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation, vendor, and customer relationships, and our customers' access to our services.. Our presence in the IoT industry with offerings of telematics products and services, including vehicle telematics, could also increase our exposure to potential costs and expenses and reputational harm in the event of cyber-attacks impacting these products or services. Our business operations require that we use and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information, in our secure data centers and on our networks. We face a number of threats to our data centers and networks in the form of unauthorized access, security breaches and other system disruptions. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure remains secure and is perceived by customers and partners to be secure. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. Despite our security measures, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or other disruptive problems. Any such security breach may compromise information used or stored on our networks and may result in significant data losses or theft of our, our customers', or our business partners' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. In addition, a cyber-attack could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues or litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be materially and adversely impacted.. Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a \"cloud\" computing service. We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities, and other services provided by AWS. Certain of our SaaS platforms and applications are hosted by AWS. Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud service provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be materially and adversely impacted.. Some of our products are subject to mandatory regulatory approvals in the United States and other countries that are subject to change, which could make compliance costly and unpredictable.. Some of our products are subject to certain mandatory regulatory approvals in the United States and other countries in which it operates. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") regulates many aspects of communication devices, including radiation of electromagnetic energy, biological safety and rules for devices to be connected to the telecommunication networks. Although we have obtained the required FCC and various country approvals for all products it currently sells, there can be no assurance that such approvals can be obtained for future products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, such regulatory requirements may change or we may not in the future be able to obtain all necessary approvals from countries other than the United States in which it currently sell our products or in which we may sell its products in the future.. We may be subject to product liability, warranty and recall claims that may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims if our products or services actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products or services results, or are alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. While we maintain what we believe to be reasonable limits of insurance coverage to appropriately respond to such liability exposures, large product liability claims, if made, could exceed our insurance coverage limits and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that we will not experience any product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of our designed products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in recalls and exchanges of such products. The future cost associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of our products could exceed our historical experience and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the new revenue recognition standard ASC 606 could materially affect our revenue recognition. As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  -  Recently Issued Accounting Standards), effective March 1, 2018, we adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (\"ASC 606\"). We believe that ASC 606 and related revenue recognition policies will not result in a material change to our consolidated financial statements, and will not cause any significant changes to the amount and timing of our recognition of future revenue and cost. However, uncertainties in future guidance of the interpretation and application of ASC 606 could materially affect our revenue and cost recognition.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provision on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, accounting treatment is clarified, we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Our inability to identify the origin of conflict minerals in its products could have a material adverse effect our business.. Many of our product lines include tantalum, tungsten, tin, gold and other materials which are considered to be \"conflict minerals\" under the SEC's rules. Those rules require public reporting companies to provide disclosure regarding the use of conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries in the manufacture of products. Those rules, or similar rules that may be adopted in other jurisdictions, could adversely affect our costs, the availability of minerals used in our products and our relationships with customers and suppliers.. Risks Relating to Our Convertible Notes and Indebtedness. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the convertible notes in cash, repay the convertible notes at maturity or repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes.. Holders of the $172.5 million aggregate principal amount of 1.625% convertible senior notes due 2020 that we issued in May 2015 (the \"convertible notes\") will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The convertible notes will be convertible into cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our election, based on an initial conversion rate of 36.2398 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the convertible notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $27.594 per share of common stock, subject to customary adjustments. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to November 15, 2019 upon the occurrence of certain events in the future, as defined in the Indenture. During the period from November 15, 2019 to May 13, 2020, holders may convert all or any portion of their notes regardless of the foregoing conditions. Upon conversion of the convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the convertible notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the convertible notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the convertible notes being converted or at their maturity.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversions or at maturity of the convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the convertible notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A fundamental change under the indenture or a default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. The conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes is triggered, holders of the convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results.. Accounting Standards Codification Subtopic 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (\"ASC 470-20\"), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt interest rate. Accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. As a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. We report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument's non-convertible interest rate. This could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing a method in which the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. Under this method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of this method. If we are unable to use this method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share could be adversely affected.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may adversely affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible. 20. Table of Contents. notes. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect if and to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants.. We have been advised that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock.. The effect, if any, of these activities, including the direction or magnitude, on the market price of our common stock will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could, however, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.. The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that one or more option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any of the option counterparties becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties.. We may incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the convertible notes.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the convertible notes when due.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market. Future issuances of shares of our common stock could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or for other reasons. In May 2015, we issued the convertible notes and, to the extent we issue common stock upon conversion of the convertible notes, that conversion would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.. Anti-takeover defenses in our charter and under Delaware law could prevent us from being acquired or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock in an acquisition.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested stockholder, unless specific conditions are met. In addition, we have in place various protections which would make it difficult for a company or investor to buy our business without the approval of our Board of. 21. Table of Contents. Directors, including authorized but undesignated preferred stock and provisions requiring advance notice of board nominations and other actions to be taken at stockholder meetings. All of the foregoing could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. The trading price of shares of our common stock may be affected by many factors and the price of shares of our common stock could decline.. As a publicly traded company, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past. The future trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations in response to such factors, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in revenues or operating results;. •  failure to meet securities analysts' or investors' expectations of performance;. •  changes in key management personnel;. •  announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. •  developments in or disputes regarding patents and proprietary rights;. •  proposed and completed acquisitions by us or our competitors;. •  the mix of products and services sold;. •  the timing, placement and fulfillment of significant orders;. •  product and service pricing and discounts;. •  acts of war or terrorism; and. •  general economic conditions.. Our stock price has been highly volatile in the past and could be highly volatile in the future.. The market price of our stock can be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report, as well as other factors, including substantial volatility in quarterly revenues and earnings due to comments by securities analysts and our failure to meet market expectations.. Over the fiscal year ended February 28, 2018, the price of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Select Market ranged from a high of $25.45 to a low of $15.64. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that were unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes subsequently become the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. Lack of expected dividends may make our stock less attractive as an investment.. We intend to retain all future earnings for use in the development of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In certain cases, stocks that pay regular dividends command higher market trading prices, and so our stock price may be lower as a result of our dividend policy."
