[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our markets are rapidly changing, which makes it difficult to predict our future revenue and plan our expenses appropriately.. We compete in markets characterized by rapid technological change, changing needs of CSPs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. We invest significant amounts to pursue innovative technologies that we believe would be adopted by CSPs. In addition, on an ongoing basis we expect to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services as we encounter rapidly changing CSP requirements and increasing competitive pressures. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to meet our customers' needs and compete with evolving industry standards or if the technologies we choose to invest in fail to meet customer needs or are not adopted by customers, the use of our products and our revenue could decline, making it difficult to forecast our future revenue and plan our operating expenses appropriately.. We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to generate positive operating income and positive cash flows in the future.. We have experienced net losses in each year of our existence. We incurred net losses of $83.0 million in 2017, $27.4 million in 2016 and $26.3 million in 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $667.4 million.. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and cash outlays for research and development associated with the platforms and systems that make up our product portfolio, growth of our cloud and services operations, investments in innovative technologies, expansion of our product portfolio, sales and marketing, customer support and general and administrative functions as we expand our business and operations and target new customer segments, primarily larger CSPs including cable MSOs. Given our growth rate and the intense competitive pressures we face, we may be unable to control our operating costs.. We cannot guarantee that we will achieve profitability in the future. We will have to generate and sustain significant and consistent increased revenue, while continuing to control our expenses, in order to achieve and then maintain profitability. We may also incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the risks discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and other factors that we cannot anticipate. We have incurred higher than expected costs associated with the growth of our professional services business and, if we are unable to scale that business and attain operational efficiencies, we will continue to incur losses. If we are unable to generate positive operating income and positive cash flows from operations, our liquidity, gross margin, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are unable to generate cash flows to support our operational needs, we may need to seek other sources of liquidity, including additional borrowings, to support our working capital needs. In addition, we may choose to seek other sources of liquidity even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which would adversely impact our business and growth.. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance and could cause the market price of our stock to decline.. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. These fluctuations may make financial planning and forecasting difficult. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the market price of our stock would likely decline. Moreover, we may experience delays in recognizing revenue under applicable revenue recognition rules. For example, revenue associated with large turnkey network improvement projects, which include projects that are funded by the CAF program, is generally deferred until customer acceptance is received and may be subject to delays, rework requirements and unexpected costs, among other uncertainties. Certain government-funded contracts, such as those funded by U.S. Department of Agriculture's RUS, also include acceptance and administrative requirements that delay revenue recognition. The extent of these delays and their impact. 16. on our revenue can fluctuate considerably depending on the number and size of purchase orders under these contracts for a given time period. In addition, unanticipated decreases in our available liquidity due to fluctuating operating results could limit our growth and delay implementation of our expansion plans.. In addition to the other risk factors listed in this \"Risk Factors\" section, factors that have in the past and may continue to contribute to the variability of our operating results include:. • our ability to predict our revenue and reduce and control product costs, including larger scale turnkey network improvement projects that may span several quarters;. • our ability to increase our sales to larger CSPs globally;. • the capital spending patterns of CSPs and any decrease or delay in capital spending by CSPs due to macro-economic conditions, regulatory uncertainties or other reasons;. • the impact of government-sponsored programs on our customers;. • intense competition;. • our ability to develop new products or enhancements that support technological advances and meet changing CSP requirements;. • our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products and CSPs' willingness to deploy our new products;. • the concentration of our customer base as well as our dependence on a limited number of key customers;. • the length and unpredictability of our sales cycles and timing of orders;. • our lack of long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts with our customers;. • our exposure to the credit risks of our customers;. • fluctuations in our gross margin;. • the interoperability of our products with CSP networks;. • our dependence on sole-, single- and limited-source suppliers;. • our ability to manage our relationships with our third-party vendors, including contract manufacturers, ODMs, logistics providers, component suppliers and development partners;. • our ability to forecast our manufacturing requirements and manage our inventory;. • our products' compliance with industry standards;. • our ability to expand our international operations;. • our ability to protect our intellectual property and the cost of doing so;. • the quality of our products, including any undetected hardware defects or bugs in our software;. • our ability to estimate future warranty obligations due to product failure rates;. • our ability to obtain necessary third-party technology licenses at reasonable costs;. • the regulatory and physical impacts of climate change and other natural events;. • the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key management personnel;. • our ability to build and sustain an adequate and secure information technology infrastructure; and. • our ability to maintain proper and effective internal controls.. Our gross margin may fluctuate over time, and our current level of gross margin may not be sustainable.. Our current level of gross margin may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:. • changes in customer, geographic or product mix, including the mix of configurations within each product group;. • the pursuit or addition of new large customers;. • increased price competition, including the impact of customer discounts and rebates;. • our ability to reduce and control product costs;. • an increase in revenue mix toward services, which typically have lower margin;. • changes in component pricing;. • changes in contract manufacturer rates;. • charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand;. • introduction of new products and new technologies, which may involve higher component costs;. • our ability to scale our services business in order to gain desired efficiencies;. • changes in shipment volume;. • changes in or increased reliance on distribution channels;. • potential liabilities associated with increased reliance on third-party vendors;. • increased expansion efforts into new or emerging markets;. • increased warranty costs;. • excess and obsolete inventory and inventory holding charges;. • expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements; and. • potential costs associated with contractual liquidated damages obligations.. 17. An increase in revenue mix towards services will adversely affect our gross margin.. Customers are demanding greater professional and support services for our products, which usually have a lower gross margin than product purchases. In particular, we have experienced increased demand for professional services associated with network improvement projects, which typically are turnkey projects whereby we supply products and related professional services such as network planning, product installation, testing and network turn up. Revenue recognized from such professional services may be delayed because of the timing of completion and acceptance of a project or milestone, including third-party delays that may be outside our control. Additionally, if we are unable to meet project deadlines for professional and support services due to our suppliers' inability to meet our demands for components or for any other reasons, we will incur additional costs, including higher premiums to source necessary components, additional costs and expedited fees to meet project deadlines, all of which would negatively impact our gross margin. We also rely upon third-party subcontractors to assist with some of our services projects, which generally result in higher costs and increased risk of cost overruns, including expenditures for costly rework, which would also negatively impact our gross margin. Furthermore, we incurred ramp up costs to grow our professional service business to meet customer demand, but we may not achieve the desired efficiencies and scale in our professional services business, which will have an adverse impact on our gross margin. Increases in professional services as a proportion of our revenue mix have resulted in lower overall gross margin and may continue to result in lower overall gross margin in future periods. This negative impact on gross margin is exacerbated in periods where we experience accelerated levels of activity to meet project requirements and customer deadlines. Moreover, the increase in our professional services projects has resulted in increased deferred costs, including costs directly associated with the delivery of the professional services for the arrangement, that are recognized as cost of revenue only when all revenue recognition criteria are met for the arrangement. In the event some or all of such deferred costs are deemed unrecoverable, including as a result of cost overruns, we will incur additional charges to cost of revenue in the period such deferred costs are determined to be unrecoverable. Any charge to cost of revenue for deferred costs determined to be unrecoverable would negatively impact our gross margin.. Our business is dependent on the capital spending patterns of CSPs, and any decrease or delay in capital spending by CSPs in response to economic conditions, seasonality, uncertainties associated with the implementation of regulatory reform or otherwise would reduce our revenue and harm our business.. Demand for our products depends on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by CSPs as they construct, expand, upgrade and maintain their access networks. Any future economic downturn may cause a slowdown in telecommunications industry spending, including in the specific geographies and markets in which we operate. In response to reduced consumer spending, challenging capital markets or declining liquidity trends, capital spending for network infrastructure projects of CSPs could be delayed or canceled. In addition, capital spending is cyclical in our industry, sporadic among individual CSPs and can change on short notice. As a result, we may not have visibility into changes in spending behavior until nearly the end of a given quarter.. CSP spending on network construction, maintenance, expansion and upgrades is also affected by reductions in their budgets, delays in their purchasing cycles, access to external capital (such as government grants and loan programs or the capital markets) and seasonality and delays in capital allocation decisions. For example, our CSP customers tend to spend less in the first quarter as they are still finalizing their annual budgets and in certain regions customers are also challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit outside fiber deployment, resulting in weaker demand for our products in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Also, softness in demand across any of our customer markets, including due to macro-economic conditions beyond our control or uncertainties associated with the implementation of regulatory reform, has in the past and could in the future lead to unexpected slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers.. Many factors affecting our results of operations are beyond our control, particularly in the case of large CSP orders and network infrastructure deployments involving multiple vendors and technologies where the achievement of certain thresholds for acceptance is subject to the readiness and performance of the CSP or other providers and changes in CSP requirements or installation plans. Further, CSPs may not pursue infrastructure upgrades that require our access systems and software. Infrastructure improvements may be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors including cost, regulatory obstacles (including uncertainties associated with the implementation of regulatory reforms), mergers, lack of consumer demand for advanced communications services and alternative approaches to service delivery. Reductions in capital expenditures by CSPs, particularly CSPs that are significant customers, may have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations and slow our rate of revenue growth. As a consequence, our results for a particular period may be difficult to predict, and our prior results are not necessarily indicative of results in future periods.. Government-sponsored programs could impact the timing and buying patterns of CSPs, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results.. We sell to CSPs, which include U.S.-based IOCs, which have revenue that is particularly dependent upon interstate and intrastate access charges and federal and state subsidies. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and some states may consider changes to such payments and subsidies, and these changes could reduce IOC revenue. Furthermore, many IOCs. 18. use or expect to use government-supported loan programs or grants, such as RUS loans and grants, to finance capital spending. Changes to these programs, including uncertainty from government and administrative change, could reduce the ability of IOCs to access capital and thus reduce our revenue opportunities.. Many of our customers were awarded grants or loans under government stimulus programs such as the Broadband Stimulus programs under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, and the funds distributed under the FCC's CAF program, and have purchased and will continue to purchase products from us or other suppliers while such programs and funding are available. However, customers may substantially curtail purchases as funding winds down or as planned purchases are completed.. In addition, any changes in government regulations and subsidies could cause our customers to change their purchasing decisions, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We face intense competition that could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results.. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we expect competition from both established and new companies to increase. Our competitors include companies such as ADTRAN, Arris Group, Inc., Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Juniper Networks Inc., Nokia Corporation, ZTE Corporation and DASAN Zhone Solutions, Inc., among others.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:. • the successful development of new products;. • our ability to anticipate CSP and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards;. • our ability to differentiate our products from our competitors' offerings based on performance, cost-effectiveness or other factors;. • our ongoing ability to successfully integrate acquired product lines and customer bases into our business;. • our ability to meet increased customer demand for professional services associated with network improvement projects;. • our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products; and. • our ability to market and sell our products.. The broadband access equipment market has undergone and continues to undergo consolidation, as participants have merged, made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer more comprehensive solutions than they individually had offered. Recent examples include Arris' acquisition of Pace plc in January 2016; Nokia's acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent in January 2016; and the merger of DASAN Zhone Solutions with DASAN Network Solutions in September 2016. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry.. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. Many of our competitors have broader product lines and can offer bundled solutions, which may appeal to certain customers. Our competitors may also invest additional resources in developing more compelling product offerings. Potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features, because the products that we and our competitors offer require a substantial investment of time and funds to qualify and install.. Some of our competitors may offer substantial discounts or rebates to win new customers or to retain existing customers. If we are forced to reduce prices in order to secure customers, we may be unable to sustain gross margin at desired levels or achieve profitability. Competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margin, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results.. Product development is costly, and if we fail to develop new products or enhancements that meet changing CSP requirements, we could experience lower sales.. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and unanticipated changes in subscriber requirements. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and adapt to such changes, and to offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, products and features that meet changing CSP demands and industry standards. We intend to continue making significant investments in developing new products and enhancing the functionality of our existing products. Developing our products is expensive and complex and involves uncertainties. We may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage lengthy product development cycles. Our research and development expenses were $127.5 million, or 25% of our revenue, in 2017, $106.9 million, or 23% of our revenue, in 2016 and $89.7 million, or 22% of our revenue, in 2015. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts, including increased reliance on third-party development partners, to. 19. maintain our competitive position. These investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever. In addition, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. If we fail to meet our development targets, demand for our products will decline.. In addition, the introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we manage the transition from older products to these new or enhanced products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, fulfill ongoing customer commitments and ensure that adequate supplies of new products are available for delivery to meet anticipated customer demand. If we fail to maintain compatibility with other software or equipment found in our customers' existing and planned networks, we may face substantially reduced demand for our products, which would reduce our revenue opportunities and market share. Moreover, as customers complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service and support than we have provided in the past. We may not be able to provide products, services and support to compete effectively for these market opportunities. If we are unable to anticipate and develop new products or enhancements to our existing products on a timely and cost-effective basis, we could experience lower sales, which would harm our business.. Our new products are early in their life cycles and subject to uncertain market demand. If our customers are unwilling to install our new products or deploy our new services, or we are unable to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our business and financial results will be harmed.. Our new products are early in their life cycles and subject to uncertain market demand. They also may face obstacles in manufacturing, deployment and competitive response. Potential customers may choose not to invest the additional capital required for initial system deployment of new products. In addition, demand for new products is dependent on the success of our customers in deploying and selling advanced services to their subscribers. Our products support a variety of advanced broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, Internet protocol television, mobile broadband, high-definition video and online gaming. If subscriber demand for such services does not grow as expected or declines or our customers are unable or unwilling to deploy and market these services, demand for our products may decrease or fail to grow at rates we anticipate.. Our customer base is concentrated, and there are a limited number of potential customers for our products. The loss of any of our key customers, a decrease in purchases by our key customers or our inability to grow our customer base would adversely impact our revenue and results of operations and any delays in payment by a key customer could negatively impact our cash flows and working capital.. Historically, a large portion of our sales has been to a limited number of customers. For example, one customer accounted for 31% of our revenue in 2017, 21% of our revenue in 2016 and 22% of our revenue in 2015, and another customer accounted for 15% of our revenue in 2016. However, we cannot anticipate the level of purchases in the future by these customers. Customer purchases may be delayed or impacted due to financial difficulties, spending cuts or corporate consolidations. For example, one of our key customers recently completed a large acquisition, which continues to disrupt its normal expenditure plans, including continued delays and reduction in purchases of our products and services as it finalizes its transition activities and corporate strategies. Any decrease or delay in purchases and/or capital expenditure plans of any of our key customers, or our inability to grow our sales with existing customers, may have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations.. We anticipate that a large portion of our revenue will continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. In addition, some larger customers may demand discounts and rebates or desire to purchase their access systems and software from multiple providers. As a result of these factors, our future revenue opportunities may be limited, our margins could be reduced and our profitability may be adversely impacted. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any key customer would significantly reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, delays in payment and/or extended payment terms from any of our key or larger customers could have a material negative impact on our cash flows and working capital to support our business operations.. Furthermore, in recent years, the CSP market has undergone substantial consolidation. Industry consolidation generally has negative implications for equipment suppliers, including a reduction in the number of potential customers, a decrease in aggregate capital spending and greater pricing leverage on the part of CSPs over equipment suppliers. Continued consolidation of the CSP industry and among ILEC and IOC customers, who represent a large part of our business, could make it more difficult for us to grow our customer base, increase sales of our products and maintain adequate gross margin.. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly.. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts often involve educating CSPs about the use and benefits of our products. CSPs typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products but also those of our competitors and results in a lengthy sales cycle. Sales cycles for larger customers are relatively longer and require considerably more time and expense. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any. 20. assurance that our efforts will produce sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. The timing of revenue related to sales of products and services that have installation requirements may be difficult to predict due to interdependencies that may be beyond our control, such as CSP testing and turn-up protocols or other vendors' products, services or installations of equipment upon which our products and services rely. In addition, larger projects may have longer periods between project commencement and completion and recognition of revenue. Such delays may result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenue. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, we may not achieve our revenue forecasts and our financial results would be adversely affected.. Our focus on CSPs with relatively small networks limits our revenue from sales to any one customer and makes our future operating results difficult to predict.. A large portion of our sales efforts continue to be focused on CSPs with relatively small networks, cable MSOs and selected international CSPs. Our current and potential customers generally operate small networks with limited capital expenditure budgets. Accordingly, we believe the potential revenue from the sale of our products to any one of these customers is limited. As a result, we must identify and sell products to new customers each quarter to continue to increase our sales. In addition, the spending patterns of many of our customers are characterized by small and sporadic purchases. As a consequence, we have limited backlog and will likely continue to have limited visibility into future operating results.. We do not have long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts with our customers, and therefore have no guarantee of future revenue from any customer.. We typically have not entered into long-term, committed-volume purchase contracts with our customers, including our key customers which account for a material portion of our revenue. As a result, any of our customers may cease to purchase our products at any time. In addition, our customers may attempt to renegotiate terms of sale, including price and quantity. If any of our key customers stop purchasing our access platforms, systems and software for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed.. Our efforts to increase our sales to CSPs globally, including cable MSOs, may be unsuccessful.. Our sales and marketing efforts have been focused on CSPs in North America. Part of our long-term strategy is to increase sales to CSPs globally, including cable MSOs. We have devoted and continue to devote substantial technical, marketing and sales resources to the pursuit of these larger CSPs, who have lengthy equipment qualification and sales cycles, without any assurance of generating sales. In particular, sales to these larger CSPs may require us to upgrade our products to meet more stringent performance criteria and interoperability requirements, develop new customer-specific features or adapt our product to meet international standards. For example, we have been engaged by a large CSP in testing and laboratory trials for our NG-PON2 technology along with our partner Ericsson. We have invested and expect to continue to invest considerable time, effort and expenditures, including investment in product research and development, related to this opportunity without any assurance that our efforts will produce orders or revenue. If we are unable to successfully increase our sales to larger CSPs, our operating results, financial condition, cash flows and long-term growth may be negatively impacted.. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers; if we have inadequately assessed their creditworthiness, we may have more exposure to accounts receivable risk than we anticipate. Failure to collect our accounts receivable in amounts that we anticipate could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability or unwillingness of our customers to make required payments. However, these allowances are based on our judgment and a variety of factors and assumptions.. We perform credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition. However, our evaluation of the creditworthiness of customers may not be accurate if they do not provide us with timely and accurate financial information or if their situations change after we evaluate their credit. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully, adjust our allowances for doubtful accounts as appropriate and take measures to collect accounts receivable balances, we have written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts in prior periods and may be unable to avoid additional write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts in the future. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and could harm our financial condition.. Our products must interoperate with many software applications and hardware products found in our customers' networks. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly, our business will be harmed.. Our products must interoperate with our customers' existing and planned networks, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, include software applications and products from multiple vendors and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. As a result, we must continually ensure that our. 21. products interoperate properly with these existing and planned networks. To meet these requirements, we must undertake development efforts that require substantial capital investment and employee resources. We may not accomplish these development goals quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. If we fail to maintain compatibility with other software or equipment found in our customers' existing and planned networks, we may face substantially reduced demand for our products, which would reduce our revenue opportunities and market share.. We have entered into interoperability arrangements with a number of equipment and software vendors for the use or integration of their technology with our products. These arrangements give us access to and enable interoperability with various products that we do not otherwise offer. If these relationships fail, we may have to devote substantially more resources to the development of alternative products and processes and our efforts may not be as effective as the combined solutions under our current arrangements. In some cases, these other vendors are either companies that we compete with directly or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and may have influence over the purchasing decisions of those customers. Some of our competitors have stronger relationships with some of our existing and other potential interoperability partners, and as a result, our ability to have successful interoperability arrangements with these companies may be harmed. Our failure to establish or maintain key relationships with third-party equipment and software vendors may harm our ability to successfully sell and market our products.. The quality of our support and services offerings is important to our customers, and if we fail to continue to offer high quality support and services, we could lose customers, which would harm our business.. Once our products are deployed within our customers' networks, they depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to those products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. Furthermore, our services to customers have increasingly broadened to include network design and services to deploy our products within our customers' networks, such as our professional services associated with turnkey network improvement projects for our customers. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping them quickly resolve post-deployment issues or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and harm our reputation with potential new customers. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services could result in the loss of customers, which would harm our business.. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected hardware defects or software bugs, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business.. Our products are highly technical and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many networks. Our products have contained and may contain undetected defects, bugs or security vulnerabilities. Some defects in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers and may in some cases only be detected under certain circumstances or after extended use. Any errors, bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty and retrofit costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Our estimates regarding future warranty or product obligations may change due to product failure rates, shipment volumes, field service obligations and rework costs incurred in correcting product failures. If our estimates change, the liability for warranty or product obligations may be increased, impacting future cost of revenue.. Our products are highly complex, and our product development, manufacturing and integration testing may not be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues. Quality or performance problems for products covered under warranty could adversely impact our reputation and negatively affect our operating results and financial position. The development and production of new products with high complexity often involves problems with software, components and manufacturing methods. If significant warranty or other product obligations arise due to reliability or quality issues arising from defects in software, faulty components or improper manufacturing methods, our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by:. • cost associated with fixing software or hardware defects;. • high service and warranty expenses;. • high inventory obsolescence expense;. • delays in collecting accounts receivable;. • payment of liquidated damages for performance failures; and. • declining sales to existing customers.. 22. We do not have manufacturing capabilities, and therefore we depend upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers and ODMs. We do not have supply contracts with all of these contract manufacturers and ODMs; consequently, our operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with any of these contract manufacturers or ODMs.. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities and rely upon a small number of contract manufacturers and ODMs to build our products. In particular, we rely on Flex for the manufacture of most of our products. Our reliance on a small number of contract manufacturers and ODMs makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.. We do not have supply contracts with some of our contract manufacturers and ODMs. Consequently, these contract manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any certain price. In addition, we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers' and ODMs' quality systems and controls and the adherence of such systems and controls to applicable standards. If our contract manufacturers and ODMs fail to maintain levels of quality manufacture suitable for us or our customers, we may incur higher costs and our relationships with our customers may be harmed.. The revenue that Flex and other contract manufacturers generate from our orders represent a relatively small percentage of those manufacturers' overall revenue. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority if such manufacturers are constrained in their ability to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. In addition, a substantial part of our manufacturing is done in our contract manufacturer and ODM facilities that are located outside of the United States, including Flex's facilities. We believe that the location of these facilities outside of the United States increases supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions or reductions in manufacturing quality or controls. Moreover, regulatory changes or government actions relating to export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, or the possibility of such changes or actions, may create uncertainty or result in changes to or disruption in our operations with our contract manufacturers.. If Flex or any of our other contract manufacturers or ODMs were unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and at high quality levels, we would have to identify, qualify and select acceptable alternative contract manufacturers. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require us to reduce our supply of products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenue and harm our relationships with our customers.. We and our business partners, including our contract manufacturers and suppliers, depend on sole-source, single-source and limited-source suppliers for some key components. If we and our business partners are unable to source these components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our customers.. We and our business partners, including our contract manufacturers and suppliers, depend on sole-source, single-source and limited-source suppliers for some key components of our products. For example, certain of our application-specific integrated circuit processors and resistor networks are purchased from sole-source suppliers.. Any of the sole-source, single-source and limited-source suppliers upon whom we or our business partners rely could stop producing our components, cease operations, or enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors. We may also experience shortages or delay of critical components as a result of growing demand in the industry or other sectors. For example, growth in electronic and IoT devices, wireless products, automotive electronics and artificial intelligence all drive increased demand for certain components, such as chipsets and memory products, which may result in lower availability and increased prices for such components.. In addition, purchase volumes of such components may be too low for Calix to be considered a priority customer by these suppliers. As a result, these suppliers could stop selling to us and our business partners at commercially reasonable prices, or at all. Any such interruption or delay may force us and our business partners to seek similar components from alternative sources, which may not be available. Switching suppliers could also require that we redesign our products to accommodate new components and could require us to re-qualify our products with our customers, which would be costly and time-consuming. Any interruption in the supply of sole-source, single-source or limited-source components for our products would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers, could result in lost revenue or higher expenses and would harm our business.. We utilize domestic and international third-party vendors to assist in the design, development and manufacture of certain of our products, and to provide logistics services in the distribution of our products. If these vendors fail to provide these services, we could incur additional costs and delays or lose revenue.. From time to time we enter into ODM, original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, and development agreements for the design, development and/or manufacture of certain of our products in order to enable us to offer products on an accelerated basis. For example, a third party assisted in the design and currently manufactures portions of our E-Series systems and nodes family. We. 23. also rely upon limited third party vendors for logistics services to distribute our products. If any of these third-party vendors stop providing their services, for any reason, we would have to obtain similar services from alternative sources, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also have limited control over disruptions that may occur at the facilities of these third-party partners, such as supply interruptions or manufacturing quality that may occur at ODM and OEM facilities and strikes or systems failures that may interrupt transportation and logistics services. In addition, switching development firms or manufacturers could require us to extend our development timeline and/or re-qualify our products with our customers, which would also be costly and time-consuming. Any interruption in the development, supply or distribution of our products would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could result in lost revenue or higher costs, which would negatively impact our margins and operating results and harm our business.. If we fail to forecast our manufacturing requirements accurately or fail to properly manage our inventory with our contract manufacturers, we could incur additional costs, experience manufacturing delays and lose revenue.. We bear inventory risk under our contract manufacturing arrangements and our ODM and OEM agreements. Lead times for the materials and components that we order through our manufacturers vary significantly and depend on numerous factors, including the specific supplier, contract terms and market demand for a component at a given time. Lead times for certain key materials and components incorporated into our products are currently lengthy, requiring our manufacturers to order materials and components several months in advance of manufacture.. If we overestimate our production requirements, our manufacturers may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our manufacturers, at our request, purchase excess components that are unique to our products or build excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess parts or products and their storage costs. Historically, we have reimbursed our primary contract manufacturers for a portion of inventory purchases when our inventory has been rendered excess or obsolete. Examples of when inventory may be rendered excess or obsolete include manufacturing and engineering change orders resulting from design changes or in cases where inventory levels greatly exceed projected demand. If we incur payments to our manufacturers associated with excess or obsolete inventory, this may have an adverse effect on our gross margin, financial condition and results of operations.. We have experienced unanticipated increases in demand from customers, which resulted in delayed shipments and variable shipping patterns. If we underestimate our product requirements, our manufacturers may have inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products, increase our cost of product revenue associated with expedite fees and air freight and/or result in delays or cancellation of sales.. As the market for our products evolves, changing customer requirements may adversely affect the valuation of our inventory.. Customer demand for our products can change rapidly in response to market and technology developments. Demand can be affected not only by customer- or market-specific issues, but also by broader economic and/or geopolitical factors. We may, from time to time, adjust inventory valuations downward in response to our assessment of demand from our customers for specific products or product lines. The related excess inventory charges may have an adverse effect on our gross margin, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with evolving industry standards, sales of our existing and future products would be adversely affected.. The markets for our products are characterized by a significant number of standards, both domestic and international, which are evolving as new technologies are developed and deployed. As we expand into adjacent markets and increase our international footprint, we are likely to encounter additional standards. Our products must comply with these standards in order to be widely marketable. In some cases, we are compelled to obtain certifications or authorizations before our products can be introduced, marketed or sold in new markets or to customers that we have not historically served. For example, our ability to maintain Operations System Modification for Intelligent Network Elements certification for our products will affect our ongoing ability to continue to sell our products to Tier 1 CSPs.. In addition, our ability to expand our international operations and create international market demand for our products may be limited by regulations or standards adopted by other countries that may require us to redesign our existing products or develop new products suitable for sale in those countries. Although we believe our products are currently in compliance with domestic and international standards and regulations in countries in which we currently sell, we may not be able to design our products to comply with evolving standards and regulations in the future. This ongoing evolution of standards may directly affect our ability to market or sell our products. Further, the cost of complying with the evolving standards and regulations or the failure to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certifications could prevent us from selling our products where these standards or regulations apply, which would result in lower revenue and lost market share.. 24. We may be unable to successfully expand our international operations. In addition, we may be subject to a variety of international risks that could harm our business.. We currently generate most of our sales from customers in North America and have limited experience marketing, selling and supporting our products and services outside North America or managing the administrative aspects of a worldwide operation. Our ability to expand our international operations is dependent on our ability to create or maintain international market demand for our products. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. In the course of expanding our international operations and operating overseas, we will be subject to a variety of risks, including:. • differing regulatory requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, labor regulations, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions;. • liability or damage to our reputation resulting from corruption or unethical business practices in some countries;. • exposure to effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates if, over time, international customer contracts are increasingly denominated in local currencies;. • longer collection periods and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • greater difficulty supporting and localizing our products;. • different or unique competitive pressures as a result of, among other things, the presence of local equipment suppliers;. • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies and compensation, benefits and compliance programs;. • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection;. • risk of change in international political or economic conditions, terrorist attacks or acts of war; and. • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings.. We engage resellers to promote, sell, install and support our products to some customers in North America and internationally. Their failure to do so or our inability to recruit or retain appropriate resellers may reduce our sales and thus harm our business.. We engage some value added resellers, or VARs, who provide sales and support services for our products. In particular, the non-exclusive reseller agreement entered into with Ericsson in 2012 has provided us with an extensive global reseller channel. More recently we have partnered with Ericsson on larger customer opportunities. We compete with other telecommunications systems providers for our VARs' business and many of our VARs, including Ericsson, are free to market competing products. Our use of VARs and other third-party support partners and the associated risks of doing so are likely to increase as we expand sales outside of North America. If Ericsson or any other VAR promotes a competitor's products to the detriment of our products or otherwise fails to market our products and services effectively, we could lose market share. In addition, the loss of a key VAR or the failure of VARs to provide adequate customer service could have a negative effect on customer satisfaction and could cause harm to our business. If we do not properly recruit and train VARs to sell, install and service our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process in March 2017. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, or the access to capital of our customers or partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations in the United Kingdom, and generally on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our securities.. 25. We may have difficulty evolving and scaling our business and operations to meet customer and market demand, which could result in lower profitability or cause us to fail to execute on our business strategies.. In order to grow our business, we will need to continually evolve and scale our business and operations to meet customer and market demand. Evolving and scaling our business and operations places increased demands on our management as well as our financial and operational resources to effectively:. • manage organizational change;. • manage a larger organization;. • accelerate and/or refocus research and development activities;. • expand our manufacturing, supply chain and distribution capacity;. • increase our sales and marketing efforts;. • broaden our customer-support and services capabilities;. • maintain or increase operational efficiencies;. • scale support operations in a cost-effective manner;. • implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and. • maintain effective financial disclosure controls and procedures.. If we cannot evolve and scale our business and operations effectively, we may not be able to execute our business strategies in a cost-effective manner and our business, financial condition, profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, which could impair our ability to compete effectively.. We depend on certain proprietary technology for our success and ability to compete. We rely on intellectual property laws as well as nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. U.S. patent, copyright and trade secret laws afford us only limited protection and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and our issued patents may not be enforceable. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, resulting in the loss of our competitive advantage and decreased sales.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and harm to our business.. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights that could harm our business.. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use some technologies in the future. Third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to technologies or rights that are important to our business. Such claims may originate from non-practicing entities, patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore, our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to suit from these entities.. We have received in the past and expect that in the future we may receive communications from competitors and other companies alleging that we may be infringing their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights; offering licenses to such intellectual property; threatening litigation or requiring us to act as a third-party witness in litigation. In addition, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to indemnify our customers for expenses or liabilities resulting from certain claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. Such indemnification may require us to be financially responsible for claims made against our customers, including costs of litigation and damages awarded, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Any claims asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our engineering teams and management. These claims could also result in product shipment delays or require us to modify our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products.. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we closely monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source software licenses have not been interpreted by the courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to sell our products. In such event, we could be required to make our proprietary software generally available to third parties, including competitors, at no cost, to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue. 26. the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or at all, any of which could adversely affect our revenue and operating expenses.. If we are unable to obtain necessary third-party technology licenses, our ability to develop new products or product enhancements may be impaired.. While our current licenses of third-party technology generally relate to commercially available off-the-shelf technology, we may from time to time be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. These third-party licenses may be unavailable to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain necessary third-party licenses may force us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, or may increase the time-to-market of our products or product enhancements, any of which could harm the competitiveness of our products and result in lost revenue.. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by borrowing base restrictions and restrictive covenants in our loan and security agreement for our revolving credit facility.. The Loan and Security Agreement, or the Loan Agreement, we entered into in August 2017 with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, provides for a revolving credit facility based on a customary accounts receivable borrowing base, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions, such that borrowings available to us are limited by eligible accounts receivable (as defined in the Loan Agreement). If our financial position deteriorates, our borrowing capacity under the credit facility may be reduced. In addition, the Loan Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants and requires that we maintain a specified minimum liquidity ratio and maintenance of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement). The negative covenants also include, among others, restrictions on our and our subsidiaries' transferring collateral, making changes to the nature of our business or the business of the applicable subsidiary, incurring additional indebtedness, engaging in mergers or acquisitions, paying dividends or making other distributions, making investments, engaging in transactions with affiliates, making payments in respect of subordinated debt, creating liens and selling assets, in each case subject to certain exceptions. Failure to maintain these restrictive covenants and requirements can limit the amount of borrowings that are available to us, increase the cost of borrowings under the facility, and/or require us to make immediate payments to reduce borrowings. For the month ended November 30, 2017, we were not able to maintain the minimum Adjusted Quick Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) at the level required in the Loan Agreement, which constituted an event of default. Although SVB waived this event of default effective as of November 30, 2017 and, therefore, this default did not terminate our ability to borrow under the Loan Agreement, we were required to pay an amendment fee and amend certain covenants under the Loan Agreement and, in February 2018, we entered into an amendment to the Loan Agreement that, among other things, amended certain affirmative financial covenants, including reductions to the required minimum level of the Adjusted Quick Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) and the inclusion of an additional financial covenant related to the maintenance of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement). Events beyond our control could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, in which case we may not be able to meet our financial covenants. The Loan Agreement covenants may also affect our ability to obtain future financing and to pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions.. Our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to comply with environmental and other legal regulations could adversely impact our results of operations.. The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products may require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations, or materials subject to laws restricting the use of conflict minerals. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers, ODMs and OEMs to comply with any of these requirements could result in regulatory penalties, legal claims or disruption of production. In addition, our failure or the failure of our manufacturers to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or liabilities. Existing and future environmental regulations and other legal requirements may restrict our use of certain materials to manufacture, assemble and test products. Any of these consequences could adversely impact our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes.. Regulatory and physical impacts of climate change and other natural events may affect our customers and our contract manufacturers, resulting in adverse effects on our operating results.. As emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the atmosphere, affecting large-scale weather patterns and the global climate, any new regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may result in additional costs to our customers and our contract manufacturers. In addition, the physical impacts of climate change and other natural events, including changes in weather patterns, drought, rising ocean and temperature levels, earthquakes and tsunamis, may impact our customers, suppliers and contract manufacturers, and our operations. These potential physical effects may adversely affect our revenue, costs, production and delivery schedules, and cause harm to our results of operations and financial condition.. 27. We have in the past pursued, and may in the future continue to pursue, acquisitions which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to address and resolve these risks and uncertainties successfully, such acquisitions could disrupt our business and result in higher costs than we anticipate.. We acquired Occam in 2011 and Ericsson's fiber access assets in 2012. We may in the future acquire other businesses, products or technologies to expand our product offerings and capabilities, customer base and business. We have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic transactions. We have limited experience making such acquisitions or integrating these businesses after such acquisitions. Unanticipated costs to us from these historical transactions as well as both anticipated and unanticipated costs to us related to any future transactions could exceed amounts that are covered by insurance and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Occam acquisition resulted in litigation with defense costs that were in excess of available directors' and officers' liability insurance coverage, including costs for which coverage was denied by our insurance carriers. In addition, the anticipated benefit of any acquisitions may never materialize or the process of integrating acquired businesses, products or technologies may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.. Some of the areas where we have experienced and may in the future experience acquisition-related risks include:. • expenses and distractions, including diversion of management time related to litigation;. • expenses and distractions related to potential claims resulting from any possible future acquisitions, whether or not they are completed;. • retaining and integrating employees from acquired businesses;. • issuance of dilutive equity securities or incurrence of debt;. • integrating various accounting, management, information, human resource and other systems to permit effective management;. • incurring possible write-offs, impairment charges, contingent liabilities, amortization expense of intangible assets or impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with finite useful lives;. • difficulties integrating and supporting acquired products or technologies;. • unexpected capital expenditure requirements;. • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and. • opportunity costs associated with committing capital to such acquisitions.. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to our results of operations. We review our goodwill for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, such as a sustained or significant decline in stock price and market capitalization. If the carrying value of goodwill was deemed to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value would be recognized. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Foreign acquisitions would involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not be able to address these risks and uncertainties successfully, or at all, without incurring significant costs, delays or other operating problems.. Our inability to address or anticipate any of these risks and uncertainties could disrupt our business and could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our use of and reliance upon development resources in China may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities.. We operate a wholly foreign owned enterprise in Nanjing, China, where a dedicated team of engineers performs product development, quality assurance, cost reduction and other engineering work. We also outsource a portion of our software development to a team of software engineers based in Shenyang, China. Our reliance upon development resources in China may not enable us to achieve meaningful product cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our development efforts and other operations in China involve significant risks, including:. • difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation;. • the knowledge transfer related to our technology and exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or confidential information, including information that is proprietary to us, our customers and third parties;. • heightened exposure to changes in the economic, security and political conditions of China;. • fluctuation in currency exchange rates and tax risks associated with international operations;. • development efforts that do not meet our requirements because of language, cultural or other differences associated with international operations, resulting in errors or delays; and. • uncertainty with regards to actions the Trump administration may take with respect to international trade agreements and U.S. tax provisions related to international commerce that could adversely affect our international operations.. 28. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in China could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts, harm our competitive position and damage our reputation.. Our customers are subject to government regulation, and changes in current or future laws or regulations that negatively impact our customers could harm our business.. The FCC has jurisdiction over all of our U.S. customers. FCC regulatory policies that create disincentives for investment in access network infrastructure or impact the competitive environment in which our customers operate may harm our business. For example, future FCC regulation affecting providers of broadband Internet access services could impede the penetration of our customers into certain markets or affect the prices they may charge in such markets. Similarly, changes to regulatory tariff requirements or other regulations relating to pricing or terms of carriage on communication networks could slow the development or expansion of network infrastructures. Consequently, such changes could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. Furthermore, many of our customers are subject to FCC rate regulation of interstate telecommunications services and are recipients of CAF capital incentive payments, which are intended to subsidize broadband and telecommunications services in areas that are expensive to serve. Changes to these programs, rules and regulations that could affect the ability of IOCs to access capital, and which could in turn reduce our revenue opportunities, remain possible.. In addition, many of our customers are subject to state regulation of intrastate telecommunications services, including rates for such services, and may also receive funding from state universal service funds. Changes in rate regulations or universal service funding rules, either at the U.S. federal or state level, could adversely affect our customers' revenue and capital spending plans. Moreover, various international regulatory bodies have jurisdiction over certain of our non-U.S. customers. Changes in these domestic and international standards, laws and regulations, or judgments in favor of plaintiffs in lawsuits against CSPs based on changed standards, laws and regulations could adversely affect the development of broadband networks and services. This, in turn, could directly or indirectly adversely impact the communications industry in which our customers operate.. Many jurisdictions, including international governments and regulators, are also evaluating, implementing and enforcing regulations relating to cyber security, privacy and data protection, which can affect the market and requirements for networking and communications equipment. To the extent our customers are adversely affected by laws or regulations regarding their business, products or service offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer.. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could affect our business practices, damage our reputation and deter customers from purchasing our products and services.. Government and regulatory authorities in the United States and around the world have implemented and are continuing to implement laws and regulations concerning data protection. For example, in July 2016, the European Commission adopted the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield to replace Safe Harbor as a compliance mechanism for the transfer of personal data from the European Union to the United States. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation adopted by the EU Parliament goes into effect in May 2018 to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe. The interpretation and application of these data protection laws and regulations are often uncertain and in flux, and it is possible that they may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Concerns about or regulatory actions involving our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of customer information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect operating results. While we strive to comply with all data protection laws and regulations, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks.. Our information systems and data centers (including third-party data centers) contain sensitive information that help us operate our business efficiently, interface with and provide software solutions to customers, maintain financial accuracy and accurately produce our financial statements. In addition, we host sensitive data in data centers, including subscriber data, in the course of providing services and solutions to customers. Malicious hackers may attempt to gain access to our network or data centers; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. The theft, loss or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security and remediation costs or costs related to defending legal claims. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to cyberattacks, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breaches. If our data management systems, including those of our third-party data centers, do not effectively and securely collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to cyberattacks, equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps. 29. materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the timeliness with which we internally and externally report our operating results and our business and reputation.. While we have applied multiple layers of security to control access to our information technology systems and use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data, these security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems.. While we seek to apply best practice policies and devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our information technology and communications systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. We or our third-party hosting providers may experience a system breach and be unable to protect sensitive data. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays and cessation of service which may harm our business operations.. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyberattacks, viruses, denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions, and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, a data breach or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions and delays which may result in loss of critical data and lengthy interruptions in our services.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in additional international markets.. Our products are subject to U.S. export and trade controls and restrictions. International shipments of certain of our products may require export licenses or are subject to additional requirements for export. In addition, the import laws of other countries may limit our ability to distribute our products, or our customers' ability to buy and use our products, in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations or duties may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, duties or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could negatively impact our ability to sell, profitably or at all, our products to existing or potential international customers.. If we lose any of our key personnel, or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth would be negatively impacted.. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management or key technical or sales personnel is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our key personnel. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. Competition for skilled personnel, particularly those specializing in engineering and sales, is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, or that newly hired personnel will function effectively, both individually and as a group. In particular, we must continue to expand our direct sales force, including hiring additional sales managers, to grow our customer base and increase sales. If we are unable to effectively recruit, hire and utilize new employees, execution of our business strategy and our ability to react to changing market conditions may be impeded, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key personnel. Our executive officers and employees hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock and vested stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their equity awards decline in value, or if the exercise prices of stock options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed.. 30. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will have been detected.. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX, which requires us to expend significant resources in developing the required documentation and testing procedures. We cannot be certain that the actions we have taken and are taking to improve our internal controls over financial reporting will be sufficient to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in subsequent reporting periods or that we will be able to implement our planned processes and procedures in a timely manner. In addition, new and revised accounting standards and financial reporting requirements may occur in the future and implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws may require a significant expenditure of our management's time, attention and resources which may adversely affect our reported financial results. If we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth.. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, including costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will continue to incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements and rules under SOX and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank, among other rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, as well as listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Furthermore, these laws and regulations could make it difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of SOX and the Dodd-Frank Act and rules adopted by the SEC and the NYSE, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. We continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws and regulations, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expense.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed in the \"Risk Factors\" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others such as:. • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. • failure to meet any guidance that we have previously provided regarding our anticipated results;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • failure to meet securities analysts' estimates;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments;. • developments with respect to intellectual property rights;. • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. 31. • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation and developments relating to such litigation;. • changes in governmental regulations; and. • a slowdown in the communications industry or the general economy.. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If several of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and board of directors.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions include:. • a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board of Directors;. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the exclusive right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer or the Board of Directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our Board of Directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction.. We may need additional capital in the future to finance our business.. We may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future. Although we believe that, based on our current level of operations and anticipated growth, our existing cash, cash equivalents and borrowings available under our Loan Agreement will provide adequate funds for ongoing operations, planned capital expenditures and working capital requirements for at least the next twelve months, our working capital needs and cash use have continued to increase to support our growth initiatives, and we may need additional capital if our current plans and assumptions change. Failure to maintain certain restrictive covenants and requirements under the Loan Agreement could result in limiting the amount of borrowings that are available to us, increase the cost of borrowings under the credit facility, and/or cause us to make immediate payments to reduce borrowings or result in an event of default. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our then-existing stockholders would suffer dilution. If we raise additional debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to generate positive operating income and positive cash flows from operations, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows. 32. to support our operational needs, we may need to seek additional sources of liquidity, including borrowings, to support our working capital needs. In addition, we may choose to seek other sources of liquidity even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which would adversely impact our business and growth.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Additionally, the terms of our credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends under certain circumstances. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. 33"
