[1] "ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS. We are subject to certain risks and hazards due to the nature of our business activities. The risks discussed below, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, are not the only risks we face. We may experience additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or, as a result of developments occurring in the future, conditions that we currently deem to be immaterial may ultimately materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Commodity pricing can fluctuate widely and strongly affects our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and ability to invest in our assets.. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and ability to invest in our assets are highly dependent on commodity prices.  Compared to early to mid-2014, global energy commodity prices have declined significantly.  We are particularly dependent on Brent crude prices that have declined from over $110 per barrel in June 2014 to below $30 per barrel in January 2016.  Brent prices have improved since early 2016 and averaged $54.82 in 2017.  However, such improvements may not continue or may be reversed.  Continued low prices for our products or further price decreases could have several adverse effects including:. • reduced cash flow and decreased funds available for capital investments, interest payments and operational expenses;. • reduced proved oil and gas reserves over time and related cash flows;. • impairments of our oil and gas properties;. • reduced borrowing base capacity under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility as proved oil and gas reserves values fall;. • the potential for a reduction of our liquidity, mandatory loan repayments and default and foreclosure by our banks and bondholders against our secured assets;. • forced monetization events and potential issues under our JV arrangements;. • inability to attract counterparties to our transactions, including hedging transactions; and. • inability to access funds through the capital markets and the price we could obtain for, or the ability to conduct, asset sales or other monetization transactions.. 16. Commodity pricing can fluctuate widely and is affected by a variety of factors, including changes in consumption patterns; inventory levels; global and local economic conditions; the actions of OPEC and other significant producers and governments; actual or threatened production, refining and processing disruptions; worldwide drilling and exploration activities; the effects of conservation; weather, geophysical and technical limitations; currency exchange rates; technological advances; transportation and storage capacity, bottlenecks and costs in producing areas; alternative energy sources; regional market conditions; other matters affecting the supply and demand dynamics for our products; and the effect of changes in these variables on market perceptions.  These and other factors make it impossible to predict realized prices reliably.  While our hedging activities provide some downside protection for a significant portion of our 2018 production, they may not adequately protect us from commodity price reductions and we may be unable to enter into acceptable additional hedges.. Our lenders require us to comply with covenants and can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially limit our ability to use or access capital and our business activities.. Our ability to borrow funds under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility is limited by our borrowing base, the size of our lenders' commitments, our ability to comply with covenants and a minimum monthly liquidity requirement of $150 million.  Currently, the lenders' aggregate commitment under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility is $1 billion, and we had approximately $850 million in availability, before taking into account the minimum liquidity requirement.  We may need to draw on our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility for a portion of our future capital or operating needs.. The financial covenants that we must satisfy under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility include a monthly minimum liquidity test and quarterly first-out leverage, interest expense coverage and first-lien asset coverage ratios.  The 2014 Revolving Credit Facility also restricts our ability to monetize assets and issue or purchase debt.  Our borrowing base under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility is redetermined each May 1 and November 1. The borrowing base is determined with reference to a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserves.  Restrictions under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility are further described in Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Credit Agreements.. If we were to breach any of the covenants under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility, our lenders would be permitted to accelerate the principal amount due under the 2014 Revolving Credit Facility and foreclose against the assets securing them.  If payment were accelerated, or we failed to make certain payments, under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility, it would result in a default under our 2016 and 2017 Credit Agreements and outstanding notes and permit acceleration and foreclosure against the assets securing the 2016 and 2017 Credit Agreements and the Second Lien Notes.. Low commodity prices, coupled with substantial interest payments, could constrain our liquidity.  A significant reduction in our liquidity may force us to take actions that could have significant adverse effects.. The primary source of liquidity and resources to fund our capital program and other obligations is cash flow from operations and borrowings under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility.  As noted above, our borrowing capacity is limited.. Further price declines would reduce our cash flows from operations and may limit our access to borrowing capacity or cause a default under our financing agreements.  Under these conditions, if we were unable to achieve improved liquidity through additional financing, asset monetizations, restructuring of our debt obligations, equity issuances or otherwise, cash flow from operations and expected available credit capacity could be insufficient to meet our commitments. Successfully completing these actions could have significant adverse effects such as higher operating and financing costs, loss of certain tax benefits or dilution of equity.  Past refinancing activities have resulted in increases in our annual interest expense and future refinancing activities may have the same effect.. 17. We have significant indebtedness that could make us more vulnerable in economic downturns.. As of December 31, 2017, we had long-term consolidated indebtedness of $5.3 billion.  Our financing agreements permit us to incur significant additional indebtedness as well as certain other obligations.  We may seek amendments or waivers to the extent we need to incur indebtedness above amounts currently permitted by our financing agreements.. Certain of our outstanding indebtedness bears interest at variable rates and a rise in interest rates will increase our interest expense to the extent we do not purchase interest-rate hedges.. Our level of indebtedness may have several important consequences, including:. • jeopardizing our ability to execute our business plans;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business and in economic and industry conditions;. • putting us at a disadvantage against competitors that have lower fixed obligations and more cash flow to devote to their businesses;. • limiting our ability to obtain favorable financing for working capital, capital investments and general corporate and other purposes; and. • limiting our flexibility to operate our business, compete for capital, react to competitive pressures, and engage in certain transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us.. Subject to certain exceptions, our financing agreements limit:. • incurring additional indebtedness;. • repaying junior indebtedness, including our Second Lien Notes and Senior Notes;. • making investments;. • entering into JVs;. • paying dividends and other restricted payments;. • creating liens on our assets;. • selling assets;. • using the proceeds of asset sales for certain purposes;. • entering into mergers or acquisitions; and. • releasing collateral.. These limitations are further described in Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Credit Agreement; Second Lien Notes; Senior Notes and the documents governing our indebtedness that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other financial needs will depend on our future performance, which is influenced by market, financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors.  If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or issue additional equity on terms that may be unattractive, if it can be done at all.   Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default.  Any of these factors could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations and a default on our indebtedness could result in acceleration of all of our debt and foreclosure against assets constituting collateral for our secured credit facilities and secured notes.. Our business requires substantial capital investments, which may include acquisitions.  We may be unable to fund these investments through operating cash flow or obtain any needed additional capital on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our oil and gas reserves or production.  Our capital investment program is also susceptible to risks that could materially affect its implementation.. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive.  We make and expect to increase capital investments for the development and exploration of oil and gas reserves.  Our ability to deploy capital as planned depends on a number of variables, including:. •commodity prices;. •regulatory and third-party approvals;. 18. •our ability to timely drill, complete and stimulate wells;. •the availability of, and our ability to compete for, capital, equipment, services and personnel; and. •the availability of external sources of financing, including from JVs.. Future capital availability may be reduced by (i) our lenders, (ii) our JV partners, (iii) capital markets constraints, (iv) activist funds or investors or (v) poor stock price performance.  Because of these and other potential variables, we may be unable to deploy capital in the manner planned, which may negatively impact our production decline and constrain our development or acquisition activities.. Unless we make sufficient capital investments and conduct successful development and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced.  Our ability to make the necessary long-term capital investments or acquisitions needed to maintain or expand our reserves may be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations or external sources of capital are insufficient.  We may not be successful in developing, exploring for or acquiring additional reserves.  Over the long term, a continuing decline in our production and reserves would reduce our liquidity and ability to satisfy our debt obligations by reducing our cash flow from operations and the value of our assets.. Estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities of our proved reserves and future net cash flows may prove to be lower than estimated.. Many uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and related future net cash flows.  Our estimates are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate.. Generally, lower prices adversely affect the quantity of our reserves as those reserves expected to be produced in later years, which tend to be costlier on a per unit basis, become uneconomic.  In addition, a portion of our proved undeveloped reserves may no longer meet the economic producibility criteria under the applicable rules or may be removed due to a lower amount of capital available to develop these projects within the SEC-mandated five-year limit.. In addition, our reserves information represents estimates prepared by internal engineers.  Although over 80% of our 2017 proved reserve estimates were audited by our independent petroleum engineers, Ryder Scott Company, L.P., we cannot guarantee that the estimates are accurate.  Reserves estimation is a partially subjective process of estimating accumulations of oil and natural gas.  Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows from those reserves depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, including:. • historical production from the area compared with production from similar areas;. • the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant data;. • commodity prices;. • production and operating costs;. • ad valorem, excise and income taxes;. • development costs;. • the effects of government regulations; and. • future workover and asset retirement costs.. Changes in these variables and assumptions could require us to make significant negative reserves revisions, which could affect our liquidity by reducing the borrowing base under our 2014 Revolving Credit Facility.  In addition, factors such as the availability of capital, geology, government regulations and permits, the effectiveness of development plans and other factors could affect the source or quantity of future reserves additions.. Risks related to our acquisition and disposition activities could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition activities carry risks that we may: (i) not fully realize anticipated benefits due to less-than-expected reserves or production or changed circumstances; (ii) bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties; (iii) experience share price declines based on the market's evaluation of the activity and (iv) assume liabilities that are greater than anticipated.  Furthermore, any acquisitions made in foreign countries would expose us to currency, political, marketing, labor and other risks associated with investments in foreign assets.. 19. In connection with our acquisitions, we are often only able to perform limited due diligence.  Successful acquisitions of oil and gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, the timing for recovering the reserves, exploration potential, future commodity prices, operating costs and potential environmental, regulatory and other liabilities.  Such assessments are inexact and incomplete, and we may be unable to make these assessments with a high degree of accuracy.. Our disposition activities, including JVs, carry risks that we may (i) not be able to realize reasonable prices or rates of return for assets we sell or contribute to JVs; (ii) be required to retain liabilities that are greater than desired or anticipated; (iii) experience increased operating costs and (iv) burden our cash flows and borrowing base if we cannot replace the revenue lost for less than the proceeds from the disposition, or at all.. Our business is highly regulated and government authorities can delay or deny permits and approvals or change legal requirements governing our operations, including hydraulic fracturing and other well stimulation methods, enhanced production techniques and fluid injection or disposal, that could increase costs, restrict operations and delay our implementation of, or cause us to change, our business strategy.. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, state, local and other laws and regulations relating to the exploration and development of our properties, as well as the production, transportation, marketing and sale of our products.  Federal, state and local agencies may assert overlapping authority to regulate in these areas.  For example, the jurisdiction and enforcement authority of various state agencies have significantly increased with respect to oil and gas activities in recent years, and these agencies have significantly revised their regulations, regulatory interpretations and data collection and plan to issue additional regulations of certain oil and gas activities in 2018.  In addition, certain of these federal, state and local laws and regulations may apply retroactively and may impose strict or joint and several liability on us for events or conditions over which we and our predecessors had no control, without regard to fault, legality of the original activities, or ownership or control by third parties.. See Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry for a description of laws and regulations that affect our business.  To operate in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state and local government authorities for a variety of activities including siting, drilling, completion, stimulation, operation, maintenance, transportation, storage, marketing, site remediation, decommissioning, abandonment, fluid injection and disposal and water recycling and reuse.  Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal fines and penalties and liability for noncompliance, costs of corrective action, cleanup or restoration, compensation for personal injury, property damage or other losses, and the imposition of injunctive or declaratory relief restricting or prohibiting certain operations.  Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict or joint and several liability for the removal or remediation of contamination, including on properties over which we and our predecessors had no control, without regard to fault, legality of the original activities, or ownership or control by third parties.. Our customers, including refineries and utilities, and the businesses that transport our products to customers are also highly regulated.  For example, federal and state pipeline safety agencies have adopted or proposed regulations to expand their jurisdiction to include more gas and liquid gathering lines and pipelines and to impose additional mechanical integrity requirements.  The state has adopted additional regulations on the storage of natural gas that could affect the demand for or availability of such storage, increase seasonal volatility, or otherwise affect the prices we receive from customers.. Costs of compliance may increase and operational delays or restrictions may occur as existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or as new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations, each of which has occurred in the past.. Government authorities and other organizations continue to study health, safety and environmental aspects of oil and gas operations, including those related to air, soil and water quality, ground movement or seismicity and natural resources.  Government authorities have also adopted or proposed new or more stringent requirements for permitting, well construction and public disclosure or environmental review of, or restrictions on, oil and gas operations.  Such requirements or associated litigation could result in potentially significant added costs to comply, delay or curtail our exploration, development, fluid injection and disposal or production activities, preclude us from drilling, completing or stimulating wells, or otherwise restrict our ability to access and develop mineral rights, any of which could have an adverse effect on our expected production, other operations and financial condition.. 20. For recent examples relating to well stimulation, water management and fluid injection see Item 1 - Business - Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.. Changes in elected officials could result in different approaches to the regulation of the oil and gas industry.  In 2018, California will elect a new governor who will take office next year.  Representatives in the California legislature will change.  We cannot predict the actions the future governor or legislature may take with respect to the regulation of our business, the oil and gas industry or the state's economic fiscal or environmental policies.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas carry significant operational and financial risk and uncertainty.  We may not drill wells at the times we scheduled, or at all, and wells we do drill may not yield production in economic quantities or generate our expected VCI.. Our decisions to explore, develop, purchase or otherwise exploit prospects or properties depend in part on the evaluation of geophysical, geologic, engineering, production and other technical data and processes.  The analysis of these factors is often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations.  Our decisions and ultimate profitability are also affected by commodity prices, the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, available transportation and storage capacity, political resistance and other factors.  Our cost of drilling, completing, stimulating, equipping, operating, maintaining and abandoning wells is also often uncertain.  As we enter into more JVs, our ability to ramp up and deploy internal capital may be constrained.  Our production cost per barrel is higher than that of many of our peers due to the extraction methods we use, the large number of wells we operate and the effects of our PSC contracts.   Overruns in budgeted investments are a common risk that can make a particular project uneconomic or less economic than forecast.  We bear the risks of equipment failures, accidents, environmental hazards, adverse weather conditions, permitting or construction delays, title disputes, surface access disputes, disappointing drilling results or reservoir performance, including production response to improved recovery or enhanced recovery efforts, and other associated risks. The VCI metric we use to allocate capital is based on estimates of future cash flows and capital investment, and therefore our projects may not generate the expected results.. We have specifically identified locations for drilling over the next several years, which represent a significant part of our long-term growth strategy.  Our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.  If future drilling results in these projects do not establish sufficient reserves to achieve an economic return, we may curtail drilling or development of these projects.  We make assumptions about the consistency and accuracy of data when we identify these locations that may prove inaccurate.  We cannot guarantee that these exploration drilling locations or any other drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce crude oil or natural gas from these drilling locations.  In addition, some of our leases could expire if we do not establish production in the leased acreage.  The combined net acreage covered by leases expiring in the next three years represented approximately 16% of our total net undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2017.. Part of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including drilling in new or emerging plays.  Our drilling results are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage may decline if drilling is unsuccessful.. The risk profile for our exploration drilling locations is higher than for other locations because we have less geologic and production data and drilling history, in particular those exploration drilling locations in unconventional reservoirs. We may not find commercial amounts of oil or natural gas, in which case the value of our undeveloped acreage may decline and could be impaired. In 2017, we drilled two exploration wells both of which were dry. We may increase the proportion of our drilling in new or emerging plays over time.. One of our important assets is our acreage in the Monterey shale play in the San Joaquin, Los Angeles and Ventura basins.  The geology of the Monterey shale is highly complex and not uniform due to localized and varied faulting and changes in structure and rock characteristics.  As a result, it differs from other shale plays that can be developed in part on the basis of their uniformity.  Instead, individual Monterey shale drilling sites may need to be more fully understood and may require a more precise development approach, which could affect the timing, cost and our ability to develop this asset.. 21. Our commodity-price risk-management activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks.. Our current commodity-price risk-management activities may prevent us from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the levels determined under the derivative instruments we use to manage price risk. In addition, our commodity-price risk-management activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging or other price-risk management contracts fail to perform under those arrangements.. Adverse tax law changes may affect our operations.. In California, there have been proposals for new taxes on oil and gas production.  Although the proposals have not become law, campaigns by various interest groups could lead to future additional oil and gas severance or other taxes such as extending the state's retail sales tax to many services used in business.  In addition to the existing state corporate tax rate of 8.84%, California state lawmakers recently proposed a 10% surcharge on companies with taxable income of over $1 million.  The imposition of such taxes could significantly reduce our profit margins and cash flow and could ultimately reduce our capital investments and growth plans.. Our producing properties are located in California, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having operations concentrated in this geographic area.. Our operations are concentrated in California.  Because of this geographic concentration, the success and profitability of our operations may be disproportionately exposed to the effect of regional conditions.  These include local price fluctuations, changes in state or regional laws and regulations affecting our operations and other regional supply and demand factors, including gathering, pipeline, transportation and storage capacity constraints, limited potential customers, infrastructure capacity and availability of rigs, equipment, oil field services, supplies and labor.  The concentration of our operations in California and limited local storage options also increase our exposure to events such as natural disasters, mechanical failures, industrial accidents or labor difficulties.  Any one of these events has the potential to cause producing wells to be shut-in, delay operations and growth plans, decrease cash flows, increase operating and capital costs, prevent development of lease inventory before expiration and limit access to markets for our products.. The enactment of derivatives legislation, and the promulgation of regulations pursuant thereto, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), enacted in 2010, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives market and entities, like us, that participate in that market.  Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act required the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to promulgate a range of rules and regulations applicable to OTC derivatives transactions, and these rules may affect both the size of positions that we may enter and the ability or willingness of counterparties to trade opposite us, potentially increasing costs for transactions.  Moreover, such changes could materially reduce our hedging opportunities which could adversely affect our revenues and cash flow during periods of low commodity prices.. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market.  To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions or counterparties with other businesses that subject them to regulation in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to or otherwise impacted by such regulations.  At this time, the impact of such regulations is not clear.. 22. Concerns about climate change and other air quality issues may affect our operations or results.. Concerns about climate change and regulation of GHGs and other air quality issues may materially affect our business in many ways, including increasing the costs to provide our products and services, and reducing demand for, and consumption of, our products and services, and we may be unable to recover or pass through a significant portion of our costs.  In addition, legislative and regulatory responses to such issues may increase our operating costs and render certain wells or projects uneconomic, and potentially lower the value of our reserves and other assets.  As these requirements become more stringent, we may be unable to implement them in a cost-effective manner. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could adversely impact our cost of, and access to, capital.  Both the EPA and California have implemented laws, regulations and policies that seek to reduce GHG emissions as discussed in Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.  In 2017, we incurred costs of approximately $27 million for mandatory GHG emissions allowances in California, and costs of such allowances per metric ton of GHG emissions are expected to increase in the future as CARB tightens program requirements or as the minimum state auction price of such allowances is increased.. In addition, other current and proposed international agreements and federal and state laws, regulations and policies seek to restrict or reduce the use of petroleum products in transportation fuels, electricity generation and other applications, prohibit future use of certain vehicles and equipment that require petroleum fuels, impose additional taxes and costs on producers and consumers of petroleum products and require or subsidize the use of renewable energy. Various claimants, including certain municipalities, have also filed litigation alleging that energy producers are liable for conditions the claimants attribute to climate change.. Governmental authorities can impose administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations.  In addition, California air quality laws and regulations, particularly in southern and central California where most of our operations are located, are in most instances more stringent than analogous federal laws and regulations. For example, the San Joaquin Valley will be required to adopt more rigorous attainment plans under the Clean Air Act to comply with federal ozone and particulate matter standards, and these efforts could affect our activities in the region and our ability to permit new or modified operations.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of catastrophic events. We may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not fully insured against all risks.  Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to risks such as fires, explosions, releases, discharges, equipment or information technology failures and industrial accidents.  In addition, catastrophic events such as earthquakes, floods, mudslides, wildfires or droughts, cyber or terrorist attacks and other events may cause operations to cease or be curtailed and may adversely affect our business, workforce and the communities in which we operate.  We may be unable to obtain, or may elect not to obtain, insurance for certain risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented.. Information technology failures and cyber attacks could affect us significantly.. We rely on electronic systems and networks to communicate, control and manage our operations and prepare our financial management and reporting information.  If we record inaccurate data or experience infrastructure outages, our ability to communicate and control and manage our business could be adversely affected.  Cyber attacks on businesses have escalated in recent years.  If we were to experience an attack and our security measures failed, the potential consequences to our business and the communities in which we operate could be significant.. 23. We are exposed to certain risks related to our separation from Occidental in 2014.. In connection with our separation from Occidental, we entered into contracts that allocate risks and liabilities (including tax liabilities) between Occidental and ourselves.  These contracts were not made on an arm's length basis and include mutual indemnity obligations.  Indemnity payments that we may be required to provide Occidental may be significant and could adversely impact our business.  Similarly, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities that Occidental has agreed to retain and the indemnity from Occidental may not be sufficient or paid timely."
