[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Certain Factors Affecting Callaway Golf Company. The Company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company urges you to carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled \"Important Notice to Investors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,\" and in other documents that the Company files with the Commission, before making any investment decision with respect to the Company's securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of the Company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the Company's securities.. Risks Related to the Company's Industry and Business. A reduction in the number of rounds of golf played or in the number of golf participants could adversely affect the Company's sales.. The Company generates a large majority of its revenues from the sale of golf-related products, including golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. The demand for golf-related products in general, and golf balls in particular, is directly related to the number of golf participants and the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants. If golf participation continues to decrease or the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of the Company's products may be adversely affected. In the future, the overall dollar volume of the market for golf-related products may not grow or may decline.. In addition, the demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. The Company depends on the exposure of its products through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television. 9. Table of Contents. coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf television channels, could reduce the visibility of the Company's brand and could adversely affect the Company's sales.. The Company may have limited opportunities for future growth in sales of golf clubs and golf balls.. In order for the Company to significantly grow its sales of golf clubs or golf balls, the Company must either increase its share of the market for golf clubs or golf balls, develop markets in geographic regions historically underrepresented by the Company's products, or the overall market for golf clubs or golf balls must grow. The Company already has a significant share of worldwide sales of golf clubs and golf balls and the golf industry is very competitive. As such, gaining incremental market share quickly or at all is difficult. Therefore, opportunities for additional market share may be limited given the challenging competitive nature of the golf industry, and the overall dollar volume of worldwide sales of golf clubs or golf balls may not grow or may decline.. Unfavorable economic conditions could have a negative impact on consumer discretionary spending and therefore negatively impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company sells golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. These products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases of golf products during favorable economic conditions and when consumers are feeling confident and prosperous. Discretionary spending is also affected by many other factors, including general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxes and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Purchases of the Company's products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. A significant or prolonged decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect consumer discretionary spending, whether in the United States or in the Company's international markets, could result in reduced sales of the Company's products, which in turn would have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect the Company's customers' financial condition, their levels of business activity and their ability to pay trade obligations.. The Company primarily sells its products to golf equipment retailers directly and through wholly-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, and to foreign distributors. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and generally requires no collateral from these customers. However, a severe or prolonged downturn in the general economy could adversely affect the retail golf equipment market which in turn, would negatively impact the liquidity and cash flows of the Company's customers, including the ability of such customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company's products and to pay their trade obligations. This could result in increased delinquent or uncollectible accounts for some of the Company's customers. A failure by the Company's customers to pay on a timely basis a significant portion of outstanding account receivable balances would adversely impact the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company faces intense competition in each of its markets and if it is unable to maintain a competitive advantage, loss of market share, revenue, or profitability may result.. Golf Clubs. The golf club business is highly competitive, and is served by a number of well-established and well-financed companies with recognized brand names. New product introductions, price reductions, consignment sales, extended payment terms, \"closeouts,\" including closeouts of products that were recently commercially successful, and significant tour and advertising spending by competitors continue to generate intense market competition. Furthermore, continued downward pressure on pricing in the market for new clubs could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's pre-owned club business as the gap narrows between the cost of a new club and a pre-owned club. Successful marketing activities, discounted pricing, consignment sales, extended payment terms or new product introductions by competitors could negatively impact the Company's future sales.. Golf Balls. The golf ball business is also highly competitive. There are a number of well-established and well-financed competitors, including one competitor with an estimated U.S. market share of over 50%.  The Company's competitors continue to incur significant costs in the areas of advertising, tour and other promotional support.  The Company believes that to be competitive, the Company also needs to continue to incur significant expenses in tour, advertising and promotional support. Unless there is a change in competitive conditions, these competitive pressures and increased costs will continue to adversely affect the profitability of the Company's golf ball business.. Gear, Accessories and Other. The Company's accessories include golf bags, golf gloves, golf footwear, golf apparel and other items, as well as non-golf related items under the OGIO and TravisMathew brand names. The Company faces significant competition. 10. Table of Contents. in every region with respect to each of these product categories. In most cases, the Company is not the market leader with respect to its accessory markets.. If the Company is unable to successfully manage the frequent introduction of new products that satisfy changing consumer preferences, it could significantly and adversely impact its financial performance and prospects for future growth.. The Company's main products, like those of its competitors, generally have life cycles of two years or less, with sales occurring at a much higher rate in the first year than in the second. Factors driving these short product life cycles include the rapid introduction of competitive products and consumer demands for the latest technology. In this marketplace, a substantial portion of the Company's annual revenues is generated each year by products that are in their first year of their product life cycle.. These marketplace conditions raise a number of issues that the Company must successfully manage. For example, the Company must properly anticipate consumer preferences and design products that meet those preferences while also complying with significant restrictions imposed by the Rules of Golf (see further discussion of the Rules of Golf below) or its new products will not achieve sufficient market success to compensate for the usual decline in sales experienced by products already in the market. Second, the Company's research and development and supply chain groups face constant pressures to design, develop, source and supply new products that perform better than their predecessors - many of which incorporate new or otherwise untested technology, suppliers or inputs. Third, for new products to generate equivalent or greater revenues than their predecessors, they must either maintain the same or higher sales levels with the same or higher pricing, or exceed the performance of their predecessors in one or both of those areas. Fourth, the relatively short window of opportunity for launching and selling new products requires great precision in forecasting demand and assuring that supplies are ready and delivered during the critical selling periods. Finally, the rapid changeover in products creates a need to monitor and manage the closeout of older products both at retail and in the Company's own inventory. Should the Company not successfully manage the frequent introduction of new products that satisfy consumer demand, the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected.. The Company's golf club, golf ball, and gear and accessories business has a concentrated customer base. The loss of one or more of the Company's top customers could have a significant effect on the Company's golf club, golf ball, and gear and accessories sales.. On a consolidated basis, no single customer accounted for more than 10%, 8% and 9% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company's top five customers accounted for approximately 21%, 22% and 26% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. With respect to the Company's segments, the Company's top five. • Golf Club customers accounted for approximately 20%, 26% and 28% of total consolidated Golf Club sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively;. • Golf Ball customers accounted for approximately 30%, 28% and 30% of total consolidated Golf Ball sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; and. • Gear and Accessories customers accounted for approximately 15%, 18% and 21% of total consolidated Gear and Accessories sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. A loss of one or more of these customers could have a significant effect on the Company's net sales. Prior period percentages have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation as the result of the change in operating segments as of January 1, 2017. For further discussion, see Note 17 \"Segment Information\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate the Company's credit risk, putting pressure on its margins and its ability to sell products.. The off - course golf equipment retail markets in some countries, including the United States, are dominated by a few large retailers. Certain of these retailers have in the past increased their market share and may continue to do so in the future by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. Industry consolidation has occurred in recent years, and additional consolidation is possible. These situations may result in a concentration of the Company's credit risk with respect to its sales to such retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or other financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to the Company may not be paid. This consolidation may also result in larger retailers gaining increased leverage, which may impact the Company's margins. In addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them. 11. Table of Contents. substantially reduces their purchases of the Company's products, the Company may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for the Company's products to sustain the same level of sales. Any reduction in sales by the Company's retailers could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's business depends on strong brands, and if the Company is not able to maintain and enhance the Company's brands, its sales may be adversely affected.. The Company's brands have worldwide recognition, and the Company's success depends in large part on its ability to maintain and enhance its brand image and reputation. Maintaining, promoting and enhancing the Company's brands may require the Company to make substantial investments in areas such as product innovation, product quality, intellectual property protection, marketing and employee training, and these investments may not have the desired impact on the Company's brand image and reputation. The Company's business could be adversely impacted if the Company fails to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of the Company's brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against the Company could damage its reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in the Company and reduce long - term demand for its products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to its operations. Also, as the Company seeks to grow its presence in existing, and expand into new, geographic or product markets, consumers in these markets may not accept the Company's brand image and may not be willing to pay a premium to purchase the Company's products as compared to other brands. The Company anticipates that as it continues to grow its presence in existing markets and expand into new markets, further developing the Company's brands may become increasingly difficult and expensive. If the Company is unable to maintain or further develop the image of the Company's brands, it could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. International political instability and terrorist activities may decrease demand for the Company's products and disrupt its business.. Terrorist activities and armed conflicts could have an adverse effect on the United States or worldwide economy and could cause decreased demand for the Company's products as consumers' attention and interests are diverted from golf and become focused on issues relating to these events. If such events disrupt domestic or international air, ground or sea shipments, or the operation of the Company's manufacturing facilities, the Company's ability to obtain the materials necessary to manufacture its products and to deliver customer orders would be harmed, which would have a significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Such events can negatively impact tourism, which could adversely affect the Company's sales to retailers at resorts and other vacation destinations. In addition, the occurrence of political instability and/or terrorist activities generally restricts travel to and from the affected areas, making it more difficult in general to manage the Company's international operations.. The Company's business could be harmed by the occurrence of natural disasters or pandemic diseases.. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, tsunami, fire, flood or hurricane, or the outbreak of a pandemic disease, could significantly adversely affect the Company's business. A natural disaster or a pandemic disease could significantly adversely affect both the demand for the Company's products as well as the supply of the components used to make the Company's products. Demand for golf products also could be negatively affected as consumers in the affected regions restrict their recreational activities and as tourism to those areas declines. If the Company's suppliers experienced a significant disruption in their business as a result of a natural disaster or pandemic disease, the Company's ability to obtain the necessary components to make its products could be significantly adversely affected. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster or the outbreak of a pandemic disease generally restricts travel to and from the affected areas, making it more difficult in general to manage the Company's international operations.. The Company's business and operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could result in fluctuations in its operating results and stock price.. The Company's business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company's first-quarter sales generally represent the Company's sell-in to the golf retail channel of its golf club products for the new golf season. The Company's second and third-quarter sales generally represent reorder business for golf clubs. Sales of golf clubs during the second and third quarters are significantly affected not only by the sell-through of the Company's products that were sold into the channel during the first quarter but also by the sell-through of products by the Company's competitors. Retailers are sometimes reluctant to reorder the Company's products in significant quantities when they already have excess inventory of products of the Company or its competitors. The Company's sales of golf balls are generally associated with the level of rounds played in the areas where the Company's products. 12. Table of Contents. are sold. Therefore, golf ball sales tend to be greater in the second and third quarters, when the weather is good in most of the Company's key regions and the number of rounds played increase. Golf ball sales are also stimulated by product introductions as the retail channel takes on initial supplies. Like those of golf clubs, reorders of golf balls depend on the rate of sell-through. The Company's sales during the fourth quarter are generally significantly less than those of the other quarters because in many of the Company's key regions fewer people are playing golf during that time of year due to cold weather. Furthermore, the Company generally announces its new product line in the fourth quarter to allow retailers to plan for the new golf season. Such early announcements of new products could cause golfers, and therefore the Company's customers, to defer purchasing additional golf equipment until the Company's new products are available. Such deferments could have a material adverse effect on sales of the Company's current products or result in closeout sales at reduced prices.. The seasonality of the Company's business could be exacerbated by the adverse effects of unusual or severe weather conditions as well as by severe weather conditions caused by climate change on the Company's business.. Due to the seasonality of the Company's business, the Company's business can be significantly adversely affected by unusual or severe weather conditions and by severe weather conditions caused by climate change. Unfavorable weather conditions generally result in fewer golf rounds played, which generally results in reduced demand for all golf products, and in particular, golf balls. Furthermore, catastrophic storms can negatively affect golf rounds played both during the storms and afterward, as storm damaged golf courses are repaired and golfers focus on repairing the damage to their homes, businesses and communities. Consequently, sustained adverse weather conditions, especially during the warm weather months, could materially affect the Company's sales.. Changes in equipment standards under applicable Rules of Golf could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company seeks to have its new golf club and golf ball products satisfy the standards published by the USGA and The R&A in the Rules of Golf because these standards are generally followed by golfers, both professional and amateur, within their respective jurisdictions. The USGA publishes rules that are generally followed in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and The R&A publishes rules that are generally followed in most other countries throughout the world. However, the Rules of Golf as published by The R&A and the USGA are virtually the same and are intended to be so pursuant to a Joint Statement of Principles issued in 2001.. In the future, existing USGA and/or R&A standards may be altered in ways that adversely affect the sales of the Company's current or future products. If a change in rules were adopted and caused one or more of the Company's current or future products to be nonconforming, the Company's sales of such products would be adversely affected.. The Company's sales and business could be materially and adversely affected if professional golfers do not endorse or use the Company's products.. The Company establishes relationships with professional golfers in order to evaluate and promote Callaway Golf, Odyssey, OGIO and TravisMathew branded products. The Company has entered into endorsement arrangements with members of the various professional tours, including the Champions Tour, the PGA Tour, the LPGA Tour, the PGA European Tour, the Japan Golf Tour and the Web.com Tour. While most professional golfers fulfill their contractual obligations, some have been known to stop using a sponsor's products despite contractual commitments. If certain of the Company's professional endorsers were to stop using the Company's products contrary to their endorsement agreements, the Company's business could be adversely affected in a material way by the negative publicity or lack of endorsement.. The Company believes that professional usage of its golf clubs and golf balls contributes to retail sales. The Company therefore spends a significant amount of money to secure professional usage of its products. Many other companies, however, also aggressively seek the patronage of these professionals and offer many inducements, including significant cash incentives and specially designed products. There is a great deal of competition to secure the representation of tour professionals. As a result, it is expensive to attract and retain such tour professionals. The inducements offered by other companies could result in a decrease in usage of the Company's products by professional golfers or limit the Company's ability to attract other tour professionals. A decline in the level of professional usage of the Company's products, or a significant increase in the cost to attract or retain endorsers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales and business.. 13. Table of Contents. Any significant changes in U.S. trade, tax or other policies that restrict imports or increase import tariffs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. A significant amount of the Company's products are manufactured in Mexico, China and other regions outside of the United States.  The Trump administration has called for substantial changes to U.S. trade and tax policies, which may include import restrictions, increased import tariffs and/or changes in U.S. participation in multilateral trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Restrictions on imports could prevent or make it difficult for the Company to obtain the components needed for new products which would affect the Company's sales. Increased tariffs would require the Company to increase its prices which likely would decrease customer demand for its products.  Other countries might retaliate through the imposition of their own restrictions and or increased tariffs which would affect the Company's ability to export products and therefore adversely affect its sales.  Any significant changes in current U.S. trade, tax or other policies could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's results of operations.. Risks Related to Operations, Manufacturing, and Technology. The Company has significant international operations and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally.. The Company sells and distributes its products directly in many key international markets in Europe, Asia, North America and elsewhere around the world. These activities have resulted and will continue to result in investments in inventory, accounts receivable, employees, corporate infrastructure and facilities. In addition, there are a limited number of suppliers of golf club components in the United States, and the Company has increasingly become more reliant on suppliers and vendors located outside of the United States. The operation of foreign distribution in the Company's international markets, as well as the management of relationships with international suppliers and vendors, will continue to require the dedication of management and other Company resources. The Company manufactures most of its products outside of the United States.. As a result of this international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks, these risks include:. • Increased difficulty in protecting the Company's intellectual property rights and trade secrets;. • Unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements;. • Social, economic or political instability;. • The effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company's brands or sales of the Company's products;. • Increased difficulty in ensuring compliance by employees, agents and contractors with the Company's policies as well as with the laws of multiple jurisdictions, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, local international environmental, health and safety laws, and increasingly complex regulations relating to the conduct of international commerce;. • Increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations; and. • Increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or ship services.. Any significant adverse change in these and other circumstances or conditions relating to international operations could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's operations, financial performance and condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Any difficulties from strategic acquisitions that the Company pursues or consummates, including its recent acquisitions of OGIO and TravisMathew, could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may acquire companies, businesses and products that complement or augment its existing business. For example, in 2017, the Company completed the acquisitions of OGIO and TravisMathew. The Company may not be able to integrate these businesses or any other business that it may acquire successfully or operate such acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than predicted. The diversion of management's attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions the Company may consummate could result in the disruption of on-going business or inconsistencies in standards and controls that could negatively affect the Company's ability to maintain third-party relationships. Moreover, the Company may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or issue additional shares, to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness.. As part of the Company's efforts to acquire companies, business or products or to enter into other significant transactions, the Company conducts business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite the Company's efforts, the Company ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If the Company fails to realize the expected benefits from previous acquisitions or other acquisitions it may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, litigation with current or former employees and other events, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Company has significant international sales and purchases, and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a significant negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. A significant portion of the Company's purchases and sales is international, and the Company conducts transactions in various currencies worldwide. Conducting business in such currencies exposes the Company to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar.. The Company's financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, and as a result, transactions conducted in foreign currencies must be translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes based upon the applicable foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in these foreign currency exchange rates therefore may positively or negatively affect the Company's reported financial results and can significantly affect period-over-period comparisons.. The effect of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company's financial results can be significant. The Company therefore engages in certain hedging activities to mitigate the annual impact of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company's financial results. The Company's hedging activities can reduce, but will not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The extent to which the Company's hedging activities mitigate the effects of foreign currency translation varies based upon many factors, including the amount of transactions being hedged. Other factors that could affect the effectiveness of the Company's hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar but also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. The Company's future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which the Company conducts business.. Foreign currency fluctuations can also affect the prices at which products are sold in the Company's international markets. The Company therefore adjusts its pricing based in part upon fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Significant unanticipated changes in foreign currency exchange rates make it more difficult for the Company to manage pricing in its international markets. If the Company is unable to adjust its pricing in a timely manner to counteract the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, the Company's pricing may not be competitive in the marketplace and the Company's financial results in its international markets could be adversely affected.. If the Company inaccurately forecasts demand for its products, it may manufacture either insufficient or excess quantities, which, in either case, could adversely affect its financial performance.. The Company plans its manufacturing capacity based upon the forecasted demand for its products. Forecasting the demand for the Company's products is very difficult given the manufacturing lead time and the amount of specification involved. For example, the Company must forecast well in advance not only how many drivers it will sell, but also (1) the quantity of each driver model, (2) the quantity of the different lofts in each driver model, and (3) for each driver model and loft, the number of left handed. 15. Table of Contents. and right handed versions. The nature of the Company's business makes it difficult to adjust quickly its manufacturing capacity if actual demand for its products exceeds or is less than forecasted demand. If actual demand for its products exceeds the forecasted demand, the Company may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of new products in time to fulfill actual demand, which could limit the Company's sales and adversely affect its financial performance. On the other hand, if actual demand is less than the forecasted demand for its products, the Company could produce excess quantities, resulting in excess inventories and related obsolescence charges that could adversely affect the Company's financial performance.. The Company depends on single source or a limited number of suppliers for some of the components of its products, and the loss of any of these suppliers could harm its business.. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its clubheads and shafts, some of which are single sourced. Furthermore, some of the Company's products require specially developed manufacturing techniques and processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. In addition, many of the Company's suppliers are not well capitalized and prolonged unfavorable economic conditions could increase the risk that they will go out of business. If current suppliers are unable to deliver clubheads, shafts or other components, or if the Company is required to transition to other suppliers, the Company could experience significant production delays or disruption to its business. The Company also depends on a single or a limited number of suppliers for the materials it uses to make its golf balls. Many of these materials are customized for the Company. Any delay or interruption in such supplies could have a material adverse impact on the Company's golf ball business. If the Company experiences any such delays or interruptions, the Company may not be able to find adequate alternative suppliers at a reasonable cost or without significant disruption to its business.. A significant disruption in the operations of the Company's golf club assembly and golf ball manufacturing and assembly facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales, profitability and results of operations.. A significant disruption at any of the Company's golf club or golf ball manufacturing facilities or distribution centers in the United States or in regions outside the United States could materially and adversely affect the Company's sales, profitability and results of operations.. A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of the Company's primary delivery and shipping services for its products and component parts or a significant disruption at shipping ports could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company uses United Parcel Service (\"UPS\") for substantially all ground shipments of products to its U.S. customers. The Company uses air carriers and ocean shipping services for most of its international shipments of products. Furthermore, many of the components the Company uses to build its golf clubs, including clubheads and shafts, are shipped to the Company via air carrier and ship services. If there is any significant interruption in service by such providers or at airports or shipping ports, the Company may be unable to engage alternative suppliers or to receive or ship goods through alternate sites in order to deliver its products or components in a timely and cost-efficient manner. As a result, the Company could experience manufacturing delays, increased manufacturing and shipping costs and lost sales as a result of missed delivery deadlines and product demand cycles. Any significant interruption in UPS services, air carrier services, ship services or at airports or shipping ports could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Furthermore, if the cost of delivery or shipping services were to increase significantly and the additional costs could not be covered by product pricing, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The cost of raw materials and components could affect the Company's operating results.. The materials and components used by the Company and its suppliers involve raw materials, including synthetic rubber, thermoplastics, zinc stearate, zinc oxide and lime stone for the manufacturing of the Company's golf balls, and titanium alloys carbon fiber and steel for the assembly of the Company's golf clubs. Significant price fluctuations or shortages in such raw materials or components, including the costs to transport such materials or components, the uncertainty of currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar, increases in labor rates, trade duties or tariffs, and/or the introduction of new and expensive raw materials, could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be subject to product warranty claims that require the replacement or repair of products sold. Such warranty claims could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and relationships with its customers.. The Company manufactures and/or distributes a variety of golf-related products and has a stated two-year warranty policy for its golf clubs. From time to time, such products may contain manufacturing defects or design flaws that are not detected prior. 16. Table of Contents. to sale, particularly in the case of new product introductions or upon design changes to existing products. The failure to identify and correct manufacturing defects and product design issues prior to the sale of those products could result in product warranty claims that result in costs to replace or repair any such defective products. Because many of the Company's products are sold to retailers for broad consumer distribution and/or to customers who buy in large quantities, there could be significant costs associated with such product warranty claims, including the potential for customer dissatisfaction that may adversely affect the Company's reputation and relationships with its customers, which may result in lost or reduced sales.. Failure to adequately enforce the Company's intellectual property rights could adversely affect its reputation and sales.. The golf club industry, in general, has been characterized by widespread imitation of popular club designs. The Company has an active program of monitoring, investigating and enforcing its proprietary rights against companies and individuals who market or manufacture counterfeits and \"knockoff\" products. The Company asserts its rights against infringers of its copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade dress. However, these efforts may not be successful in reducing sales of golf products by these infringers. Additionally, other golf club manufacturers may be able to produce successful golf clubs which imitate the Company's designs without infringing any of the Company's copyrights, patents, trademarks or trade dress. The failure to prevent or limit such infringers or imitators could adversely affect the Company's reputation and sales.. The Company may become subject to intellectual property lawsuits that could cause it to incur significant costs or pay significant damages or that could prohibit it from selling its products.. The Company's competitors also seek to obtain patent, trademark, copyright or other protection of their proprietary rights and designs for golf clubs, golf balls and other golf products. From time to time, third parties have claimed or may claim in the future that the Company's products infringe upon their proprietary rights. The Company evaluates any such claims and, where appropriate, has obtained or sought to obtain licenses or other business arrangements. To date, there have been no significant interruptions in the Company's business as a result of any claims of infringement. However, in the future, intellectual property claims could force the Company to alter its existing products or withdraw them from the market or could delay the introduction of new products.. Various patents have been issued to the Company's competitors in the golf industry and these competitors may assert that the Company's golf products infringe their patent or other proprietary rights. If the Company's golf products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, the Company may be unable to obtain a license to use such technology, and it could incur substantial costs to redesign its products, withdraw them from the market, and/or to defend legal actions.. The Company's brands may be damaged by the actions of its licensees.. The Company licenses its trademarks to third-party licensees who produce, market and sell their products bearing the Company's trademarks. The Company chooses its licensees carefully and imposes upon such licensees various restrictions on the products, and on the manner, on which such trademarks may be used. In addition, the Company requires its licensees to abide by certain standards of conduct and the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. However, if a licensee fails to adhere to these requirements, the Company's brands could be damaged. The Company's brands could also be damaged if a licensee becomes insolvent or by any negative publicity concerning a licensee or if the licensee does not maintain good relationships with its customers or consumers, many of which are also the Company's customers and consumers.. Sales of the Company's products by unauthorized retailers or distributors could adversely affect the Company's authorized distribution channels and harm the Company's reputation.. Some of the Company's products find their way to unauthorized outlets or distribution channels. This \"gray market\" for the Company's products can undermine authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support the Company's products, and can injure the Company's image in the minds of its customers and consumers. On the other hand, stopping such commerce could result in a potential decrease in sales to those customers who are selling the Company's products to unauthorized distributors or an increase in sales returns over historical levels. While the Company has taken some lawful steps to limit commerce of its products in the \"gray market\" in both the United States and abroad, it has not stopped such commerce.. The Company relies on research & development, technical innovation and high - quality products to successfully compete.. Technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process is essential to the Company's commercial success.  Research and development play a key role in the Company's technical innovation and competitive advantage. The Company relies upon experts in various fields to develop and test cutting edge performance products. While the Company believes it is at the forefront of golf equipment innovation, if the Company fails to continue to introduce technical innovation in its products,. 17. Table of Contents. consumer demand for its products could decline, and if the Company experiences problems with the quality of its products, the Company may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems, any of which could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company relies on complex information systems for management of its manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If the Company's information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if the Company experiences an interruption in their operation, including a breach in cyber security, its business and results of operations could suffer.. All of the Company's major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon the Company's complex information systems. The Company's information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • Earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters;. • Power loss, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and. • Hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches.. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of the Company's information systems to perform as expected would disrupt the Company's business, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages and otherwise adversely affect the Company's operations, financial performance and condition.. Cyber-attacks, unauthorized access to, or accidental disclosure of, consumer personally-identifiable information including credit card information, that the Company collects through its websites may result in significant expense and negatively impact the Company's reputation and business.. There is heightened concern and awareness over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. While the Company has implemented security measures, the Company's computer systems may nevertheless be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptions and security compromises. Any perceived or actual unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure of personally-identifiable information, whether through a compromise of the Company's network by an unauthorized party, employee theft, misuse or error or otherwise, could harm the Company's reputation, impair the Company's ability to attract website visitors, or subject the Company to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and adversely affect the Company's operations, financial performance and condition.. Risks Related to Regulations. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" require the Company to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing the Company's products.. The Commission's rules require disclosure related to sourcing of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The rules require companies to, under specified circumstances, undertake due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The Company's products may contain some of the specified minerals. As a result, the Company incurs additional expenses in connection with complying with the rules, including with respect to any due diligence that is required under the rules. In addition, the Commission's implementation of the rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company's products. There may only be a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, and the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain necessary \"conflict free\" minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Because the Company's supply chain is complex, the Company may also not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in the Company's products through the due diligence procedures that the Company implements, which may harm the Company's reputation.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company could be adversely affected by any violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act, and other foreign anti-bribery laws.. The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which the Company operates also have anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities, and others (e.g., the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act) extend their application to activities outside of their country of origin. The Company's policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws.  In certain regions of the world, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, the Company may conduct business in certain regions through intermediaries over whom the Company has less direct control, such as subcontractors, agents, and partners (such as joint venture partners). Although the Company has implemented policies, procedures, and, in certain cases, contractual arrangements designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, the Company's officers, directors, associates, subcontractors, agents, and partners may take actions in violation of the Company's policies, procedures, contractual arrangements, and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by the Company's policies, could subject the Company and such persons to criminal and/or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows, and reputation.. The Company is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could subject the Company to liabilities, increase its costs or restrict its operations in the future.. The Company's properties and operations are subject to a number of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. The Company's failure to comply with such environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions.. The Company may also be subject to liability for environmental investigations and cleanups, including at properties that the Company currently or previously owned or operated, even if such contamination was not caused by the Company, and the Company may face claims alleging harm to health or property or natural resource damages arising out of contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. The Company may also be subject to similar liabilities and claims in connection with locations at which hazardous substances or wastes the Company has generated have been stored, treated, otherwise managed, or disposed.  Environmental conditions at or related to the Company's current or former properties or operations, and/or the costs of complying with current or future environmental, health and safety requirements (which have become more stringent and complex over time) could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, privacy laws, regulations, and standards may adversely affect the Company's business.. Personal privacy and data security have become significant issues in the United States, Europe, and in many other jurisdictions in which the Company operates. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, all of which may be subject to invalidation by relevant foreign judicial bodies. Industry organizations also regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in this area. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. Internationally, many jurisdictions in which the Company operates have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which the Company or its customers must comply, including but not limited to, the Data Protection Directive established in the European Union (the \"EU\") and data protection legislation of the individual member states subject to such directive. The Data Protection Directive will be replaced in 2018 with the pending European General Data Protection Regulation, which will impose additional obligations, penalties and risk upon the Company's business. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for noncompliance are also rising. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to the Company. Any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy and data security laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to the Company, damage its reputation and adversely affect its business.. 19. Table of Contents. Other Risks. Significant developments stemming from the U.K.'s decision to withdraw from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The United Kingdom has voted in favor of leaving the EU, and such withdrawal (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") is scheduled to take effect over the next two years. This decision has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for several years. The Company's business in the United Kingdom, the EU, and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of Brexit. The pending withdrawal and its possible future consequences have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally, which could adversely affect the Company's operating results and growth prospects, or result in a further strengthening of the U.S. dollar which would also adversely affect the Company's reported operating results.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the Company's effective income tax rate and profitability.. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Although the Tax Act enacted in December 2017 lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate, the Company's effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which the Company has not previously provided for U.S. taxes. The Company regularly assesses all of these matters to determine the adequacy of its tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion.. The Tax Act is unclear in certain respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. The Company is still evaluating certain provisions included in the Tax Act and therefore not completed its full assessment.  As such, there may be material adverse effects resulting from the Tax Act that the Company has not yet identified.. The Company's ability to utilize all or a portion of its U.S. deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if the Company experiences an \"ownership change.\". The Company has a significant amount of U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, which include net operating loss carryforwards, other losses and credit carryforwards. The Company's ability to utilize the losses and credits to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if the Company were to experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in ownership of the Company's stock by \"5-percent shareholders\" (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred for purposes of Section 382 is complex and requires significant judgment. The extent to which the Company's ability to utilize the losses and credits is limited as a result of such an ownership change depends on many variables, including the value of the Company's stock at the time of the ownership change. The Company continues to monitor changes in ownership. If such a cumulative increase did occur in any three-year period and the Company were limited in the amount of losses and credits it could use to offset taxable income, the Company's results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted.. The Company's obligations and certain financial covenants contained under its existing credit facilities expose it to risks that could materially and adversely affect its liquidity, business, operating results, financial condition and limit the Company's flexibility in operating its business, including the ability to make any dividend or other payments on its capital stock.. The Company's primary credit facility is a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (as amended, the \"ABL Facility\"), comprised of a U.S. facility, a Canadian facility and a United Kingdom facility, in each case subject to borrowing base availability under the applicable facility. The amounts outstanding under the ABL Facility are secured by certain assets, including cash (to the extent pledged by the Company), the Company's intellectual property, certain eligible real estate, inventory and accounts receivable of the Company's subsidiaries in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.  The maximum availability under. 20. Table of Contents. the ABL Facility fluctuates with the general seasonality of the business, and increases and decreases with the changes in the Company's inventory and account receivable balances.. The ABL Facility includes certain restrictions including, among other things, restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, liens, dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments, asset sales, investments, mergers, acquisitions and affiliate transactions. In addition, the ABL Facility imposes restrictions on the amount the Company could pay in annual cash dividends, including meeting certain restrictions on the amount of additional indebtedness and requirements to maintain a certain fixed charge coverage ratio under certain circumstances. If the Company experiences a decline in revenues or adjusted EBITDA, the Company may have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on its ABL Facility or other indebtedness and meeting certain of the financial covenants contained in the ABL Facility. If the Company is unable to make required payments under the ABL Facility, or if the Company fails to comply with the various covenants and other requirements of the ABL Facility or other indebtedness, the Company would be in default thereunder, which would permit the holders of the indebtedness to accelerate the maturity thereof. Any default under the ABL Facility or other indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, business, operating results and financial condition and ability to make any dividend or other payments on the Company's capital stock. See Note 4 \"Financing Arrangements,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the terms of the ABL Facility and the Company's Japan ABL Facility.. The Company's ability to generate sufficient positive cash flows from operations is subject to many risks and uncertainties, including future economic trends and conditions, demand for the Company's products, foreign currency exchange rates and other risks and uncertainties applicable to the Company and its business. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to generate sufficient operating cash flows in the future or maintain or grow its existing cash balances. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows to fund its business due to a further decline in sales or otherwise and is unable to reduce its manufacturing costs and operating expenses to offset such decline, the Company will need to increase its reliance on its credit facilities for needed liquidity. If its credit facilities are not then available or sufficient and the Company is not able to secure alternative financing arrangements, the Company's future operations would be materially, adversely affected.. The Company may need to raise additional funds from time to time through public or private debt or equity financings in order to execute its growth strategy.. The Company may need to raise additional funds from time to time in order to take advantage of opportunities, including the expansion of its business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; develop new products; or respond to competitive pressures.  Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or securities convertible into equity will dilute the percentage ownership of holders of the Company's common stock. Capital raised through debt financing would require the Company to make periodic interest payments and may impose restrictive covenants on the conduct of its business. Furthermore, additional financings may not be available on terms economically favorable to the Company, or at all, especially during periods of adverse economic conditions, which could make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to obtain funding for the operation of its business, for making additional investments in product development and for repaying outstanding indebtedness.  A failure to obtain any necessary additional funding could prevent the Company from making expenditures that may be required to grow its business or maintain its operations.. The Company's current senior management team and other key executives are critical to the Company's success, and the loss of, and failure to adequately replace, any such individual could significantly harm the Company's business.. The Company's ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of the senior officers of the Company. The Company's executives are experienced and highly qualified with strong reputations in the golf industry, and the Company believes that its management team enables it to pursue the Company's strategic goals. The success of the Company's business is dependent upon the management and leadership skills of its senior management team and other key personnel. Competition for these individuals' talents is intense, and the Company may not be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the future. The loss of one or more of these senior officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its ability to achieve its strategic goals.. The Company's insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims and the Company may incur losses that are not covered by its insurance.. The Company maintains insurance of the type and in amounts that the Company believes is commercially reasonable and that is available to businesses in its industry. The Company carries various types of insurance, including general liability, auto liability, workers' compensation and excess umbrella, from highly rated insurance carriers. Market forces beyond the Company's. 21. Table of Contents. control could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that the Company can obtain in the future or restrict its ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. The Company cannot predict the level of the premiums that the Company may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any deductible and/or self - insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available or the availability of coverage for specific risks.  In the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that the Company carries may not be sufficient to compensate the Company for the losses the Company incurs or any costs the Company is responsible for.. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of the Company's total assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and shareholders' equity.. The Company's goodwill and intangible assets consist of goodwill from acquisitions, trade names, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, patents and other intangible assets.  Accounting rules require the evaluation of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Such indicators include a sustained decline in the Company's stock price or market capitalization, adverse changes in economic or market conditions or prospects, and changes in the Company's operations.. An asset is considered to be impaired when its carrying value exceeds its fair value. The Company determines the fair value of an asset based upon the discounted cash flows expected to be realized from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. If in conducting an impairment evaluation the Company determines that the carrying value of an asset exceeded its fair value, the Company would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the asset. If a significant amount of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets were deemed to be impaired, the Company's results of operations and shareholders' equity would be significantly adversely affected.. If the Company's estimates or judgments relating to its critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, as discussed below in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" contained in Item 7. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing the Company's consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition; allowance for doubtful accounts; inventories; long-lived assets, goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets; warranty policy; income taxes and provisional estimates due to the Tax Act enacted in December 2017; share-based compensation; and foreign currency translation. The Company's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if its assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in its assumptions, which could cause its results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of its common stock."
