[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Deterioration in local economic conditions may negatively impact our financial performance.. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Eastern Massachusetts and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company's products and services as well as the ability of the Company's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources.. A downturn in our local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on our profitability.. Variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. The Company's earnings and financial condition are largely dependent upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect the Company's earnings and financial condition. The Company cannot predict with certainty, or control, changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve, affect interest income and interest expense. High interest rates could also affect the amount of loans that the Company can originate because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages or cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost to accounts with a higher cost.  The Company may also experience customer attrition due to competitor pricing.  If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, then net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. Similarly, lower interest rates cause higher yielding assets to prepay and floating or adjustable rate assets to reset to lower rates. If the Company is not able to reduce its funding costs sufficiently, due to either competitive factors or the maturity schedule of existing liabilities, then the Company's net interest margin will decline.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on the Company's results of operations, any substantial or unexpected change in, or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the economy or the financial markets could materially affect our financial performance.. Downturns in the United States or global economies or financial markets could adversely affect the demand for and income received from the Company's fee-based services. Revenues from the Wealth Management Group depend in large part on the level of assets under management and administration.  Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, as well as lower asset values, can reduce our level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease our investment management and administration revenues.. 11. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss.. The Bank originates commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Our lending strategy focuses on residential real estate lending as well as servicing commercial customers, including increased emphasis on commercial and industrial lending, and commercial deposit relationships. Commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons:. •  Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.. •  Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business.. •  Consumer Loans. Consumer loans are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss.. Any downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrowers' businesses thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, then our earnings will decrease.. The Bank's loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Bank therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. The Bank makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience, and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.. Strong competition within our industry and market area could hurt our performance and slow our growth.. The Company operates in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from savings and commercial banks. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and investment banking firms. We also face additional competition from internet-based institutions and brokerage firms. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects.. The Company's ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. •  the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on service quality, high ethical standards and reputation;. •  the ability to expand the Company's market position;. •  the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;. •  the rate at which the Company introduces new products, services, and technologies relative to its competitors;. •  customer satisfaction with the Company's level of service;. •  industry and general economic trends; and. •  the ability to attract and retain talented employees.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company's competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 12. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and may negatively impact our financial results.. The Company, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the Depositors Insurance Fund (\"DIF\") and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal banking agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, and/or limit the pricing the Company may charge on certain banking services, among other things. Compliance personnel and resources may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings.. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.. State and federal banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including for compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect our business.. Federal and state regulatory agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, an agency were to determine that the financial, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory or violates any law or regulation, such agency may take certain remedial or enforcement actions it deems appropriate to correct any deficiency. Remedial or enforcement actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced against a bank, to direct an increase in the bank's capital, to restrict the bank's growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against a bank's officers or directors, and to remove officers and directors. In the event that the FDIC concludes that, among other things, our financial conditions cannot be corrected or that there is an imminent risk of loss to our depositors, it may terminate our deposit insurance. The CFPB also has authority to take enforcement actions, including cease-and desist orders or civil monetary penalties, if it finds that we offer consumer financial products and services in violation of federal consumer financial protection laws.. If we are unable to comply with future regulatory directives, or with the terms of any future supervisory requirements to which we may become subject, then we could become subject to a variety of supervisory actions and orders, including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective actions, Memorandum of Understanding, and other regulatory enforcement actions. Such supervisory actions could, among other things, impose greater restrictions on our business, as well as our ability to develop any new business. The Company could also be required to raise additional capital, or dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed time period, or both. Failure to implement remedial measures as required by financial regulatory agencies could result in additional orders or penalties from federal and state regulators, which could trigger one or more of the remedial actions described above. The terms of any supervisory action and associated consequences with any failure to comply with any supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, and overall financial condition.. The Company is subject to liquidity risk, which could adversely affect net interest income and earnings.. The purpose of the Company's liquidity management is to meet the cash flow obligations of its customers for both deposits and loans.  The primary liquidity measurement the Company utilizes is called basic surplus, which captures the adequacy of the Company's access to reliable sources of cash relative to the stability of its funding mix of average liabilities.  This approach recognizes the importance of balancing levels of cash flow liquidity from short- and long-term securities with the availability of dependable borrowing sources which can be accessed when necessary.  However, competitive pressure on deposit pricing could result in a decrease in the Company's deposit base or an increase in funding costs.  In addition, liquidity will come under additional pressure if loan growth exceeds deposit growth.  These scenarios could lead to a decrease in the Company's basic surplus measure below the minimum policy level of 5%.  To manage this risk, the Company has the ability to purchase brokered certificates of deposit, borrow against established borrowing facilities with other banks (Federal funds), and enter into repurchase agreements with investment companies.  Depending on the level of interest rates, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.. 13. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from our subsidiary.. The holding company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiary. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiary, Cambridge Trust Company. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company's common stock.  Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Also, the Company's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on the Company's common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A breach of information security, including cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business and impact our earnings.. The Company depends upon data processing, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet.  In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs.  Despite existing safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures.  If information security is breached or difficulties or failures occur, despite the controls we and our third party vendors have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us, reputational harm, or damages to others. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings.. The Company may be adversely affected by fraud.. The Company is inherently exposed to operational risk in the form of theft and other fraudulent activity by employees, customers, and other third parties targeting the Company and/or the Company's customers or data. Such activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, and other dishonest acts.. Although the Company devotes substantial resources to maintaining effective policies and internal controls to identify and prevent such incidents, given the increasing sophistication of possible perpetrators, the Company may experience financial losses or reputational harm as a result of fraud.. The Company continually encounters technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could hurt our business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company's operations. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company relies on third parties to provide key components of its business infrastructure.. The Company relies on third parties to provide key components for its business operations, such as data processing and storage, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections, and network access. While the Company selects these third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason, or poor performance of services by a vendor, could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise conduct its business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt the Company's operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve the Company. Replacing these third party vendors could create significant delays and expense that adversely affect the Company's business and performance.. 14. The possibility of the economy's return to recessionary conditions and the possibility of further turmoil or volatility in the financial markets would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations.. The economy in the United States and globally has experienced volatility in recent years and may continue to do so for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will not worsen.  Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, the timing and impact of changing governmental policies, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or a combination of these or other factors. A worsening of business and economic conditions could have adverse effects on our business, including the following:. •  investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward pressure on the Company's stock price and resulting market valuation;. •  economic and market developments may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause declines in credit usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates;. •  the Company's ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Company uses to select, manage and underwrite its customers become less predictive of future behaviors;. •  the Company could suffer decreases in demand for loans or other financial products and services or decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with the Company;. •  customers of the Company's Wealth Management Group may liquidate investments, which together with lower asset values, may reduce the level of assets under management and administration, and thereby decrease the Company's investment management and administration revenues;. •  competition in the financial services industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions or otherwise; and. •  the value of loans and other assets or collateral securing loans may decrease.. The Company is subject to other-than-temporary impairment risk, which could negatively impact our financial performance.. The Company recognizes an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of equity, debt securities, and cost-method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. The Company considers various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, whether the Company has the intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not it will be forced to sell the security in question. Information about unrealized gains and losses is subject to changing conditions. The values of securities with unrealized gains and losses will fluctuate, as will the values of securities that we identify as potentially distressed. Our current evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments reflects our intent to hold securities for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery of fair value. However, our intent to hold certain of these securities may change in future periods as a result of facts and circumstances impacting a specific security. If our intent to hold a security with an unrealized loss changes and we do not expect the security to fully recover prior to the expected time of disposition, we will write down the security to its fair value in the period that our intent to hold the security changes.. The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The business strategy of the Company may include growth through acquisition.  Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions.  These risks may include, among other things:. •  our ability to realize anticipated cost savings;. •  the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the loss of key employees;. •  the potential disruption of our or the acquired company's ongoing business in such a way that could result in decreased revenues, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position;. •  the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; and. •  the impairment of relationships with the acquired company's employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management.. The Company cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on the achievement of our business strategy and results of operations.. 15. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with the introduction or expansion of lines of business or new products and services within existing lines of business.. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove attainable.  External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we obtain title.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation and remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions, including the FHLB of Boston.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The Company owns common stock of FHLB of Boston in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables it to borrow funds under the FHLB of Boston's advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB of Boston common stock was $4.2 million as of December 31, 2017. There are 11 branches of the FHLB, including Boston, which are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system's debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment.  Any adverse effects on the FHLB of Boston could adversely affect the value of our investment in its common stock and negatively impact our results of operations.. 16. The Company's common stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including, but not limited to:. •  the political climate and whether the proposed policies of the current Presidential administration in the U.S. that have affected market prices for financial institution stocks are successfully implemented;. •  changes in securities analysts' recommendations or expectations of financial performance;. •  volatility of stock market prices and volumes;. •  incorrect information or speculation;. •  changes in industry valuations;. •  variations in operating results from general expectations;. •  actions taken against the Company by various regulatory agencies;. •  changes in authoritative accounting guidance;. •  changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, labor and healthcare cost trend rates, recessions, and changing government policies, laws, and regulations; and. •  severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events.. There may be future sales or other dilution of the Company's equity, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company's stock.. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock.  The Company also grants shares of common stock to employees and directors under the Company's incentive plan each year.  The issuance of any additional shares of the Company's common stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of the Company's common stock.  Holders of the Company's common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle such holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares or any class or series.  Because the Company's decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions, its acquisition activity and other factors, the Company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of its future offerings.  Thus, the Company's shareholders bear the risk of the Company's future offerings reducing the market price of the Company's common stock and diluting their stock holdings in the Company.. The Company depends on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.. The Company believes that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel, or an inability to continue to attract or retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel, attract additional qualified personnel, or effectively manage the succession of key personnel. We have change of control agreements with our actively employed named executive officers, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy.. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital requirements.. The Bank and the Company are each subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital which each of the Bank and the Company must maintain. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, then our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In light of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements contained in the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee and implemented by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\"), we may be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. The ultimate impact of the revised capital and liquidity standards on us cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the treatment and implementation by the federal banking regulators. These requirements, however, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. 17"
