[1] "Item 1A \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors.. Factors That May Affect Future Results. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered, including the cautionary note under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements.” If any of the following risks manifests, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additionally, risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair its business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future.. Certain of the Company’s customers and suppliers comprise a significant percentage of the Company’s business and the loss of one or more of these customers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Sales to a relatively small number of customers have historically accounted for a significant percentage of the Company’s business. For example, one customer accounted for 35.1% of 2017 consolidated sales. This customer uses the Company’s largest product for an anti-viral drug that has experienced decreasing sales and, accordingly, the Company expects sales of this product to the customer to trend downwards significantly over the next few years. Decreased sales to this customer, or any other significant customer, or any future contract renegotiations with this customer or any other significant customer in an attempt to acquire terms more favorable to them, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For certain large customers and products, the Company invests significant resources to increase production capacity. If we fail to contract for new projects as existing projects approach completion, we will experience excess production capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on profit margins.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 9. Table of Contents. Attempts by the Company’s customers to reduce costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company’s customers routinely attempt to reduce costs, including the costs of the Company’s products, as a result of various market dynamics specifically affecting the pharmaceuticals industry. Moreover, pricing for pharmaceutical products has come under scrutiny by governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies. Such pricing pressures, if passed on to the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. New technologies, competition or a reduction in demand for the Company’s products could reduce sales.. The markets for the Company’s products are competitive and price sensitive. The Company has numerous primary API and advanced intermediate competitors throughout Western Europe and the United States and many more competitors within various segments of the markets the Company serves, including a growing number of competitors in Asia, Eastern Europe and other low-cost areas. The Company’s competitors may lower prices on products in the future and the Company may, in certain cases, respond by lowering its prices. Conversely, failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may adversely impact the Company’s market share. In general, innovator pharmaceutical companies expect price declines over time and especially upon contract renewals. These price declines could have a significant negative impact on future profits. Competitors may develop new technologies or products, negatively impacting the Company. Several of the Company’s customers, especially those that buy its generic APIs and larger pharmaceutical companies that primarily sell patented products, have internal capabilities similar to the Company’s. If one or more of these customers replace the Company’s products with their own internal capabilities, demand for the Company’s products may decrease. In addition, demand for the Company’s products may weaken due to a reduction in R&D budgets, loss of distributors or other factors. A reduction in demand for the Company’s products could impair profit margins and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. The overall level of late-stage clinical phase projects could decline and the outsourcing trends may decline, either of which could slow the Company’s growth.. The Company primarily supplies its products and services worldwide to innovator and generic pharmaceutical companies. As a result, the success of the Company depends, in part, on the demand for such pharmaceutical companies’ finished drug product. Any decrease in the number of such companies’ clinical-phase projects could result in a decrease in the number and size of the Company’s supply contracts and have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s success also depends on the continued reliance by such pharmaceutical companies on third-party manufacturers for APIs and intermediates used in their drug products. To the extent the Company’s customers, particularly large pharmaceutical companies with established manufacturing expertise, shift to direct manufacturing for certain APIs and intermediates used in their drug products, the Company’s sales could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company’s failure to obtain new customer contracts or renew existing contracts may adversely affect its business.. The Company seeks to continually renew existing customer contracts and win new contracts, which subjects the Company to potentially significant pricing pressures. While the Company’s preferred practice is to renegotiate new or extended agreements prior to expiration, in the event the Company is unable to replace these contracts timely or at all, or is forced to accept terms, including pricing terms, less favorable to the Company, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, certain of the Company’s long-term contracts may be cancelled or delayed by customers for any reason upon notice.  Multiple cancellations of significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 10. Table of Contents. Failure to obtain raw materials from third-party manufacturers could affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and deliver its products.. The Company relies on third-party manufacturers to supply many of its raw materials and intermediates, which in some instances are supplied from a single source. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of the Company’s key raw materials, difficulty implementing replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a significant increase in the prices of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition or cash flows. In particular, manufacturing problems may occur with these suppliers, and if a supplier provides the Company raw materials or other supplies that are deficient or defective or if a supplier fails to provide the Company with such materials or supplies in a timely manner, the Company may have limited ability to find appropriate substitutes or otherwise meet required specifications and deadlines. Moreover, the Company could experience inventory shortages if it is required to use an alternative supplier on short notice, which also could lead to raw materials being purchased on less favorable terms than the Company has with its regular suppliers. If such problems occur, the Company may not be able to manufacture its products profitably or on time, which could harm the Company’s reputation and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. Failure to obtain sufficient quota from the Drug Enforcement Administration (\"DEA\") or an inability to renew other licenses, certificate approvals, or permits necessary for the Company’s operations could affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and deliver certain products.. The Company’s operations are subject to various licenses, certificates, approvals and permits in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to renew all licenses, certificates, approvals, and permits upon their expiration or that it will satisfy new requirements for such licenses, certificates, approvals, and permits in the future. Any such event may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business.. In particular, the starting materials used in several of the Company's products and many of the Company's finished products are controlled substances and are regulated by the DEA. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment (including import and export), storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. The DEA limits the manufacturing and distribution of certain starting materials and APIs manufactured by the Company and the Company must regularly apply for quota to obtain and manufacture these substances. As a result of these limitations, the Company may not be able to meet commercial demand for these substances, which could harm its relationship with customers and its reputation. In addition, if the Company’s DEA registration were revoked or suspended, the Company could no longer lawfully possess, manufacture or distribute controlled substances, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. Disruptions to the Company’s or its customers’ manufacturing operations or supply chain could adversely affect its results.. Due to heavy reliance on manufacturing and related operations to produce and distribute the products the Company sells, the Company could be adversely affected by disruptions to these operations or its customers’ operations. The Company and its suppliers and customers operate in a highly regulated industry. Any violation of applicable regulations, failure to meet applicable manufacturing standards, or other actions by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, plant shutdowns or the removal of products from the market that eliminates or reduces the Company’s and its customer’s sales of products could negatively impact the Company’s business and reputation. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions at the Company’s facilities, including equipment malfunctions, disruptions in the supply chain, facility contamination, labor problems, raw material shortages, natural disasters, disruption in utility services, fire, terrorist activities, human error or disruptions in the operations of the Company’s suppliers. Any significant disruption to those operations for these or any other reasons could adversely affect the Company’s sales and customer relationships. Any sustained reduction in the Company’s ability to provide products would negatively impact its sales growth expectations, cash flows and profitability.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 11. Table of Contents. Litigation may harm the Company or otherwise negatively impact its management and financial resources.. The Company’s business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Complex or extended litigation could cause the Company to incur large expenditures and distract its management. The cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of the Company’s products, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether the Company is ultimately found liable. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will always be able to resolve such disputes on terms favorable to the Company. As a result, litigation may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain contracts with the Company’s suppliers and customers contain provisions whereby the Company indemnifies, subject to certain limitations, its counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to use of the Company’s products or facilities and other matters. Claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments.. Refer to Note 20 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s environmental and legal matters.. Incidents related to hazardous materials could adversely affect the Company.. Portions of the Company’s operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although the Company designs and implements safety procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination of property, or injury to individuals caused by these materials, cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals caused by these materials, the Company could be liable for damages and/or be forced to shut down its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.. The Company generates waste that must be transported to approved storage, treatment and disposal facilities. The transportation and disposal of such waste are required to meet applicable state and federal statutes and regulations. The handling of such waste potentially exposes the Company to environmental liability if, in the future, it is determined that the violation of statutes or regulations occurred. For example, the Company is currently a party to several environmental proceedings and remediation activities and, along with other companies, has been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. Despite its efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, the Company may face significant remediation liabilities and additional legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. It is the Company’s policy to record appropriate liabilities for environmental matters where remedial efforts are probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Such liabilities are based on the Company’s best estimate of the undiscounted future costs required to complete the remedial work. Environmental matters often span several years and frequently involve regulatory oversight or adjudication. Additionally, many remediation requirements are fluid and are likely to be affected by future technological, site and regulatory developments. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these liabilities will be materially higher than the Company has estimated.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 12. Table of Contents. In matters where the Company has been able to reasonably estimate its liability, the Company has accrued for the estimated costs associated with the study or remediation of applicable sites not owned by the Company and the Company's current and former operating sites. Reserves are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical, regulatory or legal information become available. Given the uncertainties regarding the outcome of investigative and study activities, the status of laws, regulations, enforcement, policies, the impact of other PRPs, technology and information related to individual sites, the Company does not believe it is possible to currently develop an estimate of the range of reasonably possible environmental losses in excess of its reserves.. Refer to Note 20 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s environmental and legal matters.. Potential product liability claims, errors and omissions claims in connection with services the Company performs and potential liability under indemnification agreements between the Company and its officers and directors could adversely affect the Company.. The Company manufactures products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose the Company to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. The Company seeks to reduce its potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with customers (the scope of which may vary by customer, and the performances of which are not secured) and insurance maintained by the customer and its customers. The Company could be materially adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if the Company’s liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, the Company could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services it performs. The Company currently maintains product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Company.. The Company also indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is serving at the Company’s request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited. Although the Company has a director and officer insurance policy that covers a portion of any potential exposure, the Company could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above such insurance limits.. Any claims beyond the Company’s insurance coverage limits, or that are otherwise not covered by the Company’s insurance, may result in substantial costs and a reduction in its available capital resources.. The Company maintains property insurance, employer’s liability insurance, product liability insurance, general liability insurance, business interruption insurance, and directors and officers’ liability insurance, among others. Although the Company maintains what it believes to be adequate insurance coverage, potential claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could cause an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results from operations. Generally, the Company would be at risk for the loss of inventory that is not within customer specifications. These amounts could be significant. In addition, in the future the Company may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage or the Company may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 13. Table of Contents. The Company depends on key personnel and the loss of key personnel could harm the Company’s business and results of operations.. The Company depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical employees as well as a number of key executives. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with the Company at any time. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain key personnel, or to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The Company does not maintain key-man or similar policies covering any of its senior management or key personnel. The Company’s inability to attract and retain key personnel would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. The Company has made and continues to make significant capital investments in its facilities to meet its potential future needs and, as a result, the Company depends on the success of attracting new and retaining existing customers’ business.. The Company has made and continues to make substantial investments in all of its manufacturing facilities. As a result, the Company’s fixed costs have increased. If the Company is not able to utilize the facilities to capacity, its margins could be adversely affected.. The Company continues to expand its large-scale manufacturing capacity to support expected growth in the business. There can be no assurance that sales volumes will be sufficient to ensure the economical operation of this expanded capacity, in which case, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected.. Disruption or instability in global markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. The U.S. and global capital markets have experienced periods of disruption during which general economic conditions have deteriorated with adverse consequences for the broader financial and credit markets and during which the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole was reduced significantly. Any future reduction in the availability of debt or equity capital could adversely affect the ability of the Company’s customers to obtain financing for product development and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for the Company’s products as well as impact the ability of the Company’s customers to make payments. While the Company believes that cash flows from operations and funds available under its revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet the operational and debt servicing needs of the Company for the foreseeable future, such disruptions could impact the Company’s cash flows and the availability of funds under its revolving credit facility, if, for instance, one or more of the participant banks were to fail, in which case the Company’s business may be materially and adversely affected.. If the Company acquires other businesses, it may be harmed by difficulties in integration and employee retention, unidentified liabilities of the acquired businesses, or obligations incurred in connection with financing the acquisition.. In the course of the Company’s business, the Company selectively pursues complementary acquisitions, such as the acquisition of PharmaCore, Inc. in October 2016, that involve known and unknown risks that could adversely affect the Company’s future revenues and operating results. For example:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may fail to successfully integrate its acquisitions in accordance with its business strategy.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe initial rationale for the acquisition may not remain viable due to a variety of factors, including unforeseen regulatory changes and market dynamics after the acquisition, and this may result in a significant delay or reduction in the profitability of the acquisition.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIntegration of acquisitions may divert management’s attention away from the Company’s primary product offerings, resulting in the loss of key customers or personnel, and may expose the Company to unanticipated liabilities.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may not be able to retain the skilled employees and experienced management that may be necessary to operate the businesses it acquires. If the Company cannot retain such personnel, it may not be able to locate or hire new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 14. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may purchase a business that has contingent liabilities that include, among others, known or unknown environmental, patent or product liability claims.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company’s acquisition strategy may require it to obtain additional debt or equity financing, potentially resulting in a high level of debt obligations or significant dilution of ownership, or both.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Company may purchase businesses located in jurisdictions where it does not have operations and as a result it may not be able to anticipate local regulations and the impact such regulations have on its business.. Any indemnities or warranties obtained in connection with such acquisitions may not fully cover the actual liabilities the Company incurs due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons.. As a result of acquiring businesses or entering into other significant transactions, the Company may experience significant charges to earnings for merger related expenses. If the Company is not able to successfully integrate the acquired business, it may affect the Company’s results of operations and the market price of its common stock. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to improve the operating margins of acquired businesses or operate them profitably, it may be unable to achieve its growth strategy.. In addition, if the Company makes one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes equity shares or other securities or additional capital is raised through equity financings, equity interests in the Company may be significantly diluted and may result in a dilution of earnings per share. If the Company makes one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, it may be required to use a substantial portion of its available cash or incur a significant amount of debt or otherwise arrange additional funds to complete the acquisition, which may result in reduced liquidity, a decrease in its net income and a consequential reduction in its earnings per share.. The Company’s liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the financial institutions which hold its funds fail.. The Company has significant funds held in bank deposits, money market funds and other accounts at certain financial institutions.  A significant portion of the funds held in these accounts exceed insurable limits.  In the normal course of business, the Company maintains cash balances with European Union banks up to the equivalent of $10,000 and significantly larger balances in U.S. banks. The Company routinely monitors the risks associated with these institutions and diversifies its exposure by maintaining balances with multiple financial institutions. If any of the financial institutions where the Company has deposited funds were to fail, the Company may lose some or all of its deposited funds. Such a loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company has significant inventories on hand.. The Company maintains significant inventories and has an allowance for slow-moving and obsolete inventory. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions, including obsolescence or the uncertainty in the global market, could also have an impact on the value of inventory and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations.. International unrest or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the Company’s results.. The Company’s international revenues, which include revenues from its non-U.S. subsidiaries and export sales from the U.S., represent the majority of its product revenues. The Company’s operations extend to numerous countries outside of the U.S.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 15. Table of Contents. There are a number of significant risks arising from the Company’s international operations, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe possibility that nations or groups could boycott its products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinflation, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic decline or political unrest in the markets in which it operates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teffects from the voter-approved exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (commonly referred to as “Brexit”), including any resulting deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse regulatory changes;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeopolitical risks, terrorism, or acts of war or hostility;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with local laws and regulations including laws restricting the inflow of capital or cash and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties and expenses of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timport and export licensing requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment sanctions that may reduce or eliminate the Company’s ability to sell its products in certain countries; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe protection of the Company’s intellectual property and that of its customers.. If the Company is unable to effectively manage these risks, it may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that it anticipates which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. As a result of the Company’s substantial international operations, a significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is its reporting currency. The Company recognizes foreign currency gains or losses arising from its operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which the Company does business, primarily the euro and the Swedish krona, have caused, and will continue to cause, foreign currency gains and losses. The Company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon its future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures, and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. The Company periodically purchases foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of this volatility on its operations, but its strategies are short-term in nature and may not adequately protect its operating results from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations.. Certain jurisdictions have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in some circumstances, anti-bribery laws may conflict with some local customs and practices. As a result of the Company’s policy to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, the Company may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to, or do not comply with, such laws. Furthermore, while employees and agents must comply with these laws, the Company cannot be certain that internal policies and procedures will always prevent violations of these laws, despite a commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations or mere allegations of such violations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation.. The Company’s operating results may unexpectedly fluctuate in future periods.. The Company’s revenue and operating results can fluctuate on a quarterly basis. The operating results for a particular quarter may be higher or lower than expected as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of contracts; the delay, cancellation or acceleration of a contract; seasonal slowdowns in different parts of the world; the timing of accounts receivable collections; pension contributions; changes in government regulations; and changes in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. Because a high percentage of the Company’s costs are relatively fixed in the short term, such as the cost of maintaining facilities and compensating employees, any one of these factors could have a significant impact on the Company’s quarterly results. In some quarters, the Company’s revenue and operating results may be significantly lower than or higher than the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to any of the factors described above. Because of these fluctuations, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 16. Table of Contents. The possibility the Company will be unable to protect its technologies could affect its ability to compete.. The Company’s success depends to some degree upon its ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. However, the Company cannot be assured that patents will be granted on any of its patent applications. The Company also cannot be assured that the scope of any of its issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. The Company has patents issued in selected countries; therefore, third parties can make, use, and sell products covered by its patents in any country in which the Company does not have patent protection. In addition, the Company may be involved in patent litigation in the future. Issued patents or patents the Company licenses could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that its patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. Although the Company intends to defend the validity of owned patents and use all appropriate methods to prevent their infringement, such efforts are expensive and time consuming, with no assurance of success. The ability to enforce patents depends on the laws of individual countries and each country’s practices regarding enforcement of intellectual property rights. The Company provides its customers the right to use its products under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested, and the Company cannot be assured that it would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost-effective manner.. If a third party makes a claim to an intellectual property right to technology the Company uses, the Company may need to discontinue an important product or product line, alter its products and processes, defend its right to use such technology in court or pay license fees. Although the Company may, under these circumstances, attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, it may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if the Company’s products are found to infringe on a third party’s intellectual property, the Company may be required to pay damages for past infringement, and lose the ability to sell certain products or receive licensing revenues.. The Company also relies on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that it seeks to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. It is possible that these agreements will be breached and the Company will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, the Company’s trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by its competitors or the Company may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to such products.. Information technology systems could fail to perform adequately or the Company may fail to adequately protect such systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches.. The Company utilizes information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. In particular, the Company depends on information technology infrastructure to effectively manage its business data, supply chain, logistics, accounting, and other business processes and electronic communications between employees, customers and suppliers. Ineffective allocation and management of the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, security breaches or system failures of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized access to confidential information. Inability to prevent such breaches or failures could disrupt the Company’s operations or cause financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 17. Table of Contents. The Company could be subject to impairment charges in the future.. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually.  If the Company determines that the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in the Company’s statement of operations.  The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed.  If the Company’s projected long-term sales growth rate, profit margins or terminal rate are considerably lower or the assumed weighted average cost of capital is considerably higher, future testing may indicate impairment and the Company would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in its statement of operations.. Assessments by various tax authorities may be materially different than the Company has provided for and it may experience significant volatility in its annual and quarterly effective tax rate.. As a matter of course, the Company is audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. In recent years, the Company utilized significant tax attributes such as domestic federal foreign tax credits to reduce U.S. cash taxes. While the Company believes that it has adequately provided for any taxes related to these items, and taxes related to all other aspects of its business, any such assessments or future settlements may be materially different than it has provided. Refer to Note 10 of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s income taxes.. The Company has deferred tax assets that it may not be able to use under certain circumstances.. If the Company is unable to generate future taxable income of sufficient amounts and type in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in tax rates or the time period within which taxable income is recognized, the Company could be required to increase its valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in an increase in its recorded tax expense and a potential adverse impact on future results. In December 2017 the U.S. enacted tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) that reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% effective January 1, 2018. As a result, the Company revalued its domestic federal deferred tax balances and recorded a non-cash charge of $1,611 for the fourth quarter of 2017. After giving effect to such charge, the Company has domestic federal net deferred tax assets of approximately $2,262 which are recorded at the U.S. tax rate of 21%. Future changes in corporate income tax rates could require the Company to revalue its deferred tax balances, potentially resulting in significant non-cash charges.. Low investment performance by the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets or other events including changes in regulations or actuarial assumptions may increase the Company’s pension expense, and may require the Company to fund a larger portion of its pension obligations, thus diverting funds from other potential uses.. The Company sponsors a defined benefit pension plan, frozen in 2007, that covers certain eligible employees. The Company’s pension expense and required contributions to the pension plan are directly affected by changes in interest rates, the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets, and the actuarial assumptions used to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. If plan assets perform below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense, future pension expense will increase. The proportion of pension assets to liabilities, which is called the funded status, determines the level of contribution to the plan that is required by law. Changes in the plan’s funded status related to the value of assets or liabilities could increase the amount required to be funded. The Company cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase the Company’s pension funding obligations, diverting funds from other potential uses.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 18. Table of Contents. Any significant change in government regulation of the drug development process could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The manufacturing of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities, including the FDA, the European Medicines Agency and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approval to produce and market pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly, and often unpredictable. Any modifications to these regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. If regulations become more stringent, the Company may be unable to obtain requisite regulatory approvals on a timely basis for marketing and production of products. Conversely, any significant reduction in the scope of regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could reduce barriers to entry and increase competition for the Company’s products.. Healthcare legislative reform measures could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. The continuing increase in expenditures for healthcare has been the subject of considerable government attention almost everywhere the Company does business. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or together, the Affordable Care Act, was passed in the United States, which substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, significantly impacting the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. There have been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act, and the Company expects there will be additional challenges and amendments in the future. For example, the U.S. Congress has recently considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the Affordable Care Act, and the so-called “individual mandate” was repealed as part of tax reform legislation adopted in December 2017. The potential repeal or repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s industry generally and on the Company’s ability to maintain or increase sales. In addition, there has been heightened public scrutiny in the United States recently over the manner in which drug manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. Such cost containment measures in the United States, or similar measures in the other countries in which the Company does business, could result in more rigorous coverage criteria and lower reimbursement, placing additional downward pressure on the prices that the Company receives for its products and adversely affecting the Company’s ability to sell its products.. Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) and other government regulations, as well as delays in obtaining regulatory approval by the Company or its customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for manufacturing products for clinical use or for commercial sale in the U.S. must be operated in conformity with cGMP regulations as required by the FDA and other comparable regulatory authorities in other countries, and for certain products, the DEA. The Company’s facilities are subject to periodic regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding that the Company has materially violated these requirements could result in regulatory sanctions including, but not limited to, the regulatory agencies withholding approval of new drug applications or supplements and the denial of product entry into the U.S., or other countries, of products manufactured at non-compliant facilities, the loss of a customer contract, the disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing of the Company’s facilities. Any such violations would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s customers are typically subject to the same, or similar regulations and any such violations or other actions by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, plant shutdowns or product recalls that eliminate or reduce the Company’s sale of its products or services could negatively impact the Company’s business. In addition, the submission of new products to regulatory authorities for approval by the Company or its customers does not guarantee that approval to market the product will be granted. Each authority may impose its own requirements or delay or refuse to grant approval to the Company or customer even when the product has already been approved in another country. Products that have already been approved can be removed from the market by regulatory agencies for numerous reasons.. (dollars in thousands, except per share data). 19. Table of Contents"                                             
