[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our loans are concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations.. We primarily serve individuals and businesses located in Maine, as 81% of our loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in Maine, with higher concentrations of exposure in Cumberland, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Penobscot and York counties. Further, because a substantial portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. Adverse economic, political or business developments or natural hazards may affect these areas and the ability of property owners in these areas to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying mortgages. If these regions experience adverse economic, political or business conditions, we would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on these loans than if the loans were more geographically diverse.. We experience strong competition within our markets, which may impact our profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is strong. In our market areas, we compete for loans, deposits and other financial products and services with large financial companies, local independent banks, thrift institutions, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally as well as nationally. Some of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than those of the Bank and may offer services that the Bank does not or cannot provide. There is also increased competition by out-of-market competitors through the internet. Our long-term success depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to compete successfully with other financial institutions in their service areas. Because we maintain a smaller staff and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete, we may be limited in our ability to attract customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to achieve growth in the loan and core deposit portfolios, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate and commercial loans, which are generally riskier than other types of loans.. At December 31, 2017, our commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios comprised 57% of our total loan balances. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. These loans may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, the most significant industry concentration within our loan portfolio was non-residential building operators (operators of commercial and industrial buildings, retail establishments, theaters, banks and insurance buildings), which was 11% of our total loans and 27% of our total commercial real estate portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, we had no other industry concentrations in excess of 10% of total loans.. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for probable loan losses based on a number of factors. On a monthly basis, management reviews the allowance for loan losses to assess recent asset quality trends and impact on the Company's financial condition. On a quarterly basis, the allowance for loan losses is reviewed and approved at the Bank's Board of Directors meeting. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the losses we could experience, which would have an adverse effect on operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance for loan losses in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If additional amounts are provided to the allowance for loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. 13. Table of Contents. Interest rate volatility may reduce our profitability.. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense related to interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds.  Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. In particular, changes in relative interest rates may reduce our net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, we have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that a change in interest rates will not negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Because market interest rates may change by differing magnitudes and at different times, significant changes in interest rates over an extended period of time could reduce overall net interest income. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses.. Our cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix.. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. We compete with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase if we lose deposits and are forced to replace them with more expensive sources of funding, if clients shift their deposits into higher cost products or if we need to raise interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and net income.. Potential downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. A possible future downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and a decline in the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affect the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. Such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. Among other things, a further downgrade in the U.S. government's credit rating could adversely impact the value of our securities portfolio and may trigger requirements that we post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instruments would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on the business, financial condition and results of operations.. Wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our operations and future growth.. We and our bank subsidiary must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. To manage liquidity, we draw upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our ability to manage liquidity will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. In addition, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.. We have credit and counterparty risk inherent in our securities portfolio and the soundness of other financial institutions that could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We maintain a diversified securities portfolio and have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, other commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by us or by other institutions and organizations. Many of these transactions. 14. Table of Contents. expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. Furthermore, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be liquidated or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We believe that we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairments on our investment securities portfolio in 2017. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. In addition, if the counter-party should default, become insolvent, declare bankruptcy, or otherwise cease to exist, the value of our investment may be impaired. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the significant judgments involved, there is risk that material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses.. Market changes may adversely affect demand for our services and impact results of operations.. Channels for servicing our customers are evolving rapidly, with less reliance on traditional branches, more use of online and mobile banking, and increased demand for universal bankers and other relationship managers who can service multiples product lines. We compete with larger providers that are rapidly evolving their service offerings and escalating the costs of evolving the Bank's efforts to keep pace. We have a process for evaluating the profitability of our branches and other office and operational facilities. The identification of unprofitable operations and facilities can lead to restructuring charges and introduce the risk of disruptions to revenues and customer relationships.. Our financial condition and results of operations have been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by the U.S. and international financial market and economic conditions.. We have been, and continue to be, impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and, to a lesser extent, abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, unemployment and investor confidence, all of which are beyond our control. While in recent years there has been gradual improvement in the U.S. economy, deterioration in any of these conditions could result in increases in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values, the value of our investment portfolio and demand for our products and services. Furthermore, while the U.S. economy is improving, the recovery has been slow and there continues to be some uncertainty regarding the sustainability.. Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our business.. Generally, our customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers' discretion.  Fluctuations in interest rates, in certain circumstances, may also lead to high levels of loan prepayments, which may also have an adverse impact on our net interest income.  If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our banking business is highly regulated, and we may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulation.. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC and the FDIC. Federal laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing.. Our business is highly regulated and the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. These changes could adversely and materially impact us.  The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could subject us to additional costs, limit the. 15. Table of Contents. types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance could result in enforcement and other legal actions by federal or state authorities, including criminal and civil penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation.\". We are subject to capital and liquidity standards that require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity that has historically been the case.. We became subject to new capital requirements in 2015.  These new standards, which now apply and will be fully phased-in by 2018, force bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we were permitted to make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. We made this election.. We face significant legal risks.. From time to time, we are named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. There is no assurance that litigation with private parties will not increase in the future. Future actions against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm to us. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are exposed to a high level of potential litigation related to our businesses and operations. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. The financial services industry is subject to intense scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of federal and state regulations, particularly with respect to mortgage-related practices and other consumer compliance matters, and compliance with anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act and Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations, and economic sanctions against certain foreign countries and nationals. Enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations; however, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance in place at the time. Failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputation damage, or restrictions on our business.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.  Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. We are subject to reputational risk.. We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of our relationships with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our actual or perceived failure to (a) identify and address potential conflicts of interest, ethical issues, money-laundering, or privacy issues; (b) meet legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to the Company; (c) maintain the privacy of customer and accompanying personal information; (d) maintain adequate record keeping; (e) engage in proper sales and trading practices; and (f) identify the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to the Bank and our business prospects. If we fail to address any of these issues in an appropriate manner, we could be subject to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged.. We may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies.. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk.. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquired through foreclosure.. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be required to write down goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled $99.7 million, which included goodwill and core deposit intangible assets created in connection with the SBM acquisition on October 16, 2015 of $49.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets to fair value. We conduct an annual review, or more frequently if events or circumstances warrant such, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We recently completed our goodwill impairment analysis as of November 30, 2017 and concluded goodwill was not impaired. We conduct a review of our other intangible assets for impairment should events or circumstances warrant such. There were no triggers for such review for impairment for other intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2017. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our shareholders' equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price.. 17. Table of Contents. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security concerning our information base, including the information we maintain relating to our customers, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our business and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding customers. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud, cyberattacks, hacking, identity theft and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet, and we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by customers and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices may be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of customer assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remain a priority. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures in our computer systems and networks, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through insurance maintained by us. Any such losses, which may be difficult to detect, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the occurrence of such a loss could expose the Company and the Bank to reputational risk, the loss of customer business and additional regulatory scrutiny.. We must adapt to information technology changes in the financial services industry, which could present operational issues, require significant capital spending, or impact our reputation.. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. We invest significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in our stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. 18. Table of Contents. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other external events could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. Camden National Wealth Management may be negatively affected by changes in economic and market conditions.. A substantial portion of income from fiduciary services is dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets.. Due to strong competition, Camden National Wealth Management may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong as there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Our ability to attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors' investment products, level of investment performance, client services, and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. If we do not maintain net income growth, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Our return on shareholders' equity and other measures of profitability, which affect the market price of our common stock, depend in part on our continued growth and expansion. Our growth strategy has two principal components: internal growth and external growth. Our ability to generate internal growth is affected by the competitive factors described below as well as by the primarily rural characteristics and related demographic features of the markets we serve. Our ability to continue to identify and invest in suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms is an important component of our external growth strategy. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may be in competition with other companies having similar growth strategies. As a result, we may not be able to identify or acquire promising acquisition candidates on acceptable terms. Competition for these acquisitions could result in increased acquisition prices and a diminished pool of acquisition opportunities. An inability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices could slow our growth rate and have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. We are a holding company and dependent upon our subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments.. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our revenue (on a parent-only basis) is derived primarily from interest and dividends paid to us by the Bank. Our right, and consequently the right of our shareholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Bank through the payment of such dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of us in a creditor capacity may be recognized.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice.  Additionally, the OCC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, our ability to pay dividends would be restricted under current regulatory capital rules if we do not maintain a capital conservation buffer.  A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  See Part I, Item 1. \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Dividend Restrictions\" and \"Business-Supervision and Regulation-Regulatory Capital Requirements.\". Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the FASB's recently issued financial instruments standard will, among other things, significantly change how loan loss provisions are determined once effective from an incurred loss model to an expected loss model.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. In December 2017, we recognized a write-down of $14.3 million to our net deferred tax assets in connection with the adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. For additional information, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies.. Continued market volatility may impact our business and the value of our common stock.. Our business performance and the trading price of shares of our common stock may be affected by many factors affecting financial institutions, including volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and the value of debt and mortgage-backed and other securities that we hold in our investment portfolio. Government action and legislation may also impact us and the value of our common stock. We cannot predict what impact, if any, volatility will have on our business or share price and for these and other reasons our shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased.. 20. Table of Contents"
