[1] "Item 1A.      Risk Factors. Factors Relating to the Company's Corporate History and Structure. We are a holding company and will depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash.. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our portfolio companies. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt, if any, and our other obligations and to pay dividends, if any, is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us (such ability of our subsidiaries also being subject to certain restrictions under their respective credit agreements and other debt instruments, as applicable). If our portfolio companies are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The ability of the Cannae Holdings portfolio companies to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us depends on their individual operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions to which they may be or may become subject.. We have no operating history as a separate company upon which you can evaluate our performance.. We do not have an operating history as a public company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our business will be successful on a long-term basis. We may not be able to grow our businesses as planned and may not be profitable.. We may become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940.. We do not believe that we are subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"40 Act\"). We were formed for the purpose of effecting the Split-Off and for controlling, operating or holding, as applicable, the FNFV Group's business and investments, including the portfolio companies. We engage primarily in the business of managing and operating our controlled subsidiaries. Our officers and any employees who provide services to us pursuant to the terms of our corporate services agreement with FNF devote their activities to the businesses of these portfolio companies. Our interest in the portfolio companies comprises substantially all of our assets and substantially all of our income, if any, is derived from restaurant revenue from ABRH, the revenue of T-System, and dividends and other distributions made on our interests in portfolio companies. Based on these factors, we believe that we are not an investment company under the 40 Act, including under Section 3(b)(1) of the 40 Act. If, at any time, we become primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, we could become subject to regulation under the 40 Act. Following any such change in our business and after giving effect to any applicable grace periods, we may be required to register as an investment company, which could result in significant registration and compliance costs, could require changes to our corporate governance structure and financial reporting, and could restrict our activities going forward. In addition, if we were to become inadvertently subject to the 40 Act, any violation of the 40 Act could subject us to material adverse consequences, including potentially significant regulatory penalties and the possibility that certain of our contracts would be deemed unenforceable.. Factors Relating to the Restaurant Businesses. General macroeconomic factors, including unemployment, energy prices and interest rates, and certain economic and business factors specific to the restaurant and bakery industries that are largely out of our restaurant businesses' control may materially and adversely affect consumer behavior and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions may materially and adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our restaurant businesses, which we also refer to as our Restaurant Group companies. Recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown, a worsening economy, increased unemployment, increased energy prices, rising interest rates, a downgrade of the United States (\"U.S.\") government's long-term credit rating, financial market volatility and unpredictability or other national, regional and local regulatory and economic conditions or other industry-wide cost pressures could affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and result in increased pressure with respect to our Restaurant Group companies' pricing, guest count levels and commodity costs, which could lead to a decline in our Restaurant Group companies' sales and earnings. Job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies and falling home prices could cause customers to make fewer discretionary purchases, and any significant decrease in our Restaurant Group companies' guest counts or profit will negatively impact their financial performance. In addition, if gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, or credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with rising interest rates, our Restaurant Group companies' customers may have lower disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine at restaurants, may spend less during each visit at our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants or may choose more inexpensive restaurants. These factors could also cause the Restaurant Group companies to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants or delay the reimaging of the Restaurant Group companies' existing restaurant locations.. 5. Table of Contents. Furthermore, we cannot predict the effects that actual or threatened armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, including military action against any foreign state or local group located in a foreign state, heightened security requirements on local, regional, national or international economies or a failure to protect information systems for critical infrastructure, such as the electrical grid and telecommunications systems, could have on the Restaurant Group companies' operations, the economy or consumer confidence generally. Any of these events could affect consumer spending patterns or result in increased costs for the Restaurant Group companies due to security measures.. The business results of our Restaurant Group companies depend on a number of industry-specific factors as well, many of which are beyond the Restaurant Group companies' control. The full service dining sector of the restaurant industry is affected by seasonal fluctuation of sales volumes, consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits, and the level of consumer acceptance of our restaurant brands. The performance of individual restaurants may also be materially and adversely affected by factors applicable to those restaurants, such as demographic trends, severe weather, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants.. Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our Restaurant Group companies' customers or industry could increase costs, reduce guest counts in some or all restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Restaurant Group companies could face significant competition for customers, real estate and employees and competitive pressure to adapt to changes in conditions driving customer demand. The Restaurant Group companies' inability to compete effectively may affect guest counts, sales and profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with a substantial number of restaurant operators that compete directly and indirectly with the Restaurant Group companies with respect to price, service, ambiance, brand, customer service, dining experience, location, food quality and variety and value perception of menu items and there are other well established competitors with substantially greater financial and other resources than the Restaurant Group companies. Some of our Restaurant Group companies' competitors advertise on national television, which may provide customers with greater awareness and name recognition than our Restaurant Group companies can achieve through their advertising efforts. There is also active competition for management personnel and attractive suitable real estate sites. Consumer tastes and perceptions, nutritional and dietary trends, guest count patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our Restaurant Group companies' competitors may react more efficiently and effectively to those conditions. For instance, prevailing health or dietary preferences or perceptions of our Restaurant Group companies' products may cause consumers to avoid certain menu items or products our Restaurant Group companies offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, and such choices by consumers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our Restaurant Group companies face growing competition from the supermarket industry, with the improvement of their \"convenient meals\" in the deli and prepared food sections, from quick service and fast casual restaurants and online food delivery services as a result of food and beverage offerings by those food providers. As our Restaurant Group companies' competitors expand operations in markets where our restaurant businesses operate or expect to operate, we expect competition to intensify. If our Restaurant Group companies are unable to continue to compete effectively, their guest counts, sales and profit margins could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, customer spending patterns for the Restaurant Group companies' restaurants are generally highest in the fourth quarter of the year and lowest in the third quarter of the year. Sales activity during the holidays may affect seasonal sales volumes in some of the markets in which our restaurant businesses operate. The quarterly results of our Restaurant Group companies have been and will continue to be affected by the timing of new restaurant openings and their associated costs (which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter), restaurant closures and exit-related costs, labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel, profitability of restaurants, especially in new markets, trends in comparable restaurant sales, changes in borrowings and interest rates, changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions, fluctuations in food and commodity prices, fluctuations in costs attributable to public company compliance and impairments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, fixtures and equipment. As a result of these and other factors, the Restaurant Group companies' financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.. If our restaurant businesses are unable to effectively grow revenue and profitability at certain of their locations, our Restaurant Group companies may be required to record impairment charges to their restaurant assets, the carrying value of their goodwill or other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our Restaurant Group companies assess the potential impairment of their long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner in which an asset is being used, an expectation that an asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its. 6. Table of Contents. previously estimated useful life and significant negative industry or economic trends. Our Restaurant Group companies annually review and compare the carrying value of intangible assets, including goodwill, to the fair value. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any recorded impairment to our Restaurant Group companies' assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible or long-lived assets become impaired, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Increased commodity, energy and other costs could decrease our Restaurant Group companies' profit margins or cause the Restaurant Group companies to limit or otherwise modify their menus, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The cost, availability and quality of ingredients restaurant operations use to prepare their food is subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond their control. A significant component of our restaurant businesses' costs will be related to food commodities, including beef, pork, chicken, seafood, poultry, dairy products, oils, produce, fruit, flour and other related costs such as energy and transportation over which we may have little control, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets and other factors. If there is a substantial increase in prices for these commodities, our Restaurant Group companies' results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, the Restaurant Group companies' restaurants are dependent upon frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage the Restaurant Group companies' reputation or otherwise harm our business.. The Restaurant Group companies are also subject to the general risks of inflation. The performance of our Restaurant Group companies' business is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. The Restaurant Group companies' business will also incur significant costs for insurance, labor, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, changes in laws and regulations, competition or other events beyond the Restaurant Group companies' control.. Negative customer experiences or negative publicity surrounding our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants or other restaurants could adversely affect sales in one or more of our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants and make our concepts less valuable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we believe our Restaurant Group companies' success depends significantly on their ability to provide exceptional food quality, outstanding service and an excellent overall dining experience, adverse publicity, whether or not accurate, relating to food quality, public health concerns, illness, safety, injury or government or industry findings concerning our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants, restaurants operated by other food service providers or others across the food industry supply chain could affect our Restaurant Group companies more than it would other restaurants that compete primarily on price or other factors. If customers perceive or experience a reduction in the food quality, service or ambiance at our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants or in any way believe our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants have failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, the value and popularity of one or more of our Restaurant Group companies' concepts could suffer. Further, because our restaurant businesses rely heavily on \"word-of-mouth,\" as opposed to more conventional mediums of advertisement, to establish concept recognition, our restaurant businesses may be more adversely affected by negative customer experiences than other dining establishments, including those of our restaurant businesses' competitors.. Our restaurant businesses could suffer due to reduced demand for our restaurant businesses' brands or specific menu offerings if our restaurant businesses are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related contaminations or illnesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Food safety is a top priority, and our Restaurant Group companies dedicate substantial resources to ensuring that their customers enjoy safe, quality food products. Food-related contaminations and illnesses may be caused by a variety of food-borne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, which are frequently carried on unwashed fruits and vegetables, from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis A, which may not be diagnosed prior to being infectious, and from contamination of food by foreign substances. Contamination and food borne illness incidents could also be caused at the point of source or by food suppliers and distributors. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of contamination or illness that can be contained in or transmitted from our Restaurant Group companies' food. Regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses or other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination, at one of our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants could adversely affect the reputation of our Restaurant Group companies' brands and have a negative impact on their sales. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our Restaurant Group companies' competitors or at one of our Restaurant Group companies' suppliers could result in negative publicity about the food service industry generally and adversely impact our Restaurant Group companies' sales.. 7. Table of Contents. If any person becomes injured or ill, or alleges becoming injured or ill, as a result of eating our Restaurant Group companies' food, our Restaurant Group companies may temporarily close some restaurants or their bakery facilities, which would decrease their revenues, and our restaurant businesses may be liable for damages or be subject to governmental regulatory action, either of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our restaurant businesses' reputation, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether our restaurant businesses are found liable. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.. Our Restaurant Group companies' failure to comply with government regulation, and the costs of compliance or non-compliance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Restaurant Group companies are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting their business. Each of their restaurants and their bakery division are subject to licensing and regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental authorities, which may include, among others, alcoholic beverage control, health and safety, nutritional menu labeling, health care, environmental and fire agencies. Difficulty in obtaining or failure to obtain the required licenses, including liquor or other licenses, permits or approval could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. Additionally, difficulties or inabilities to retain or renew licenses, or increased compliance costs due to changed regulations, could adversely affect operations at existing restaurants.. While only approximately 9% of the Restaurant Group companies' consolidated restaurant sales in 2017 were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages, approximately 19% of the restaurant sales at Ninety Nine were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages in 2017. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each restaurant to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of the Restaurant Group companies' restaurants, including minimum ages of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, training, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and the handling, storage and dispensation of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain liquor or food service licenses would adversely affect the restaurant's operations.. Our restaurant businesses' operations are also subject to federal and state labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, tip credits and worker conditions. The Restaurant Group companies' employees who receive tips as part of their compensation, such as servers, are generally paid at a minimum wage rate, after giving effect to applicable tip credits. The Restaurant Group companies rely on their employees to accurately disclose the full amount of their tip income, and they base their Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax reporting on the disclosures provided to them by such tipped employees. Significant numbers of these personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage and thus, further increases in the federal or state minimum wage or other changes in these laws could increase our Restaurant Group companies' labor costs. Their ability to respond to minimum wage increases by increasing menu prices will depend on the responses of their competitors and customers.. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the \"PPACA\") was signed into law in the U.S. to require healthcare coverage for many uninsured individuals and expand coverage to those already insured. Starting in 2015, the PPACA required the Restaurant Group companies to offer healthcare benefits to all full-time employees (including full-time hourly employees) that meet certain minimum requirements of coverage and affordability, or face penalties. Continued compliance with the requirements of the PPACA and rising costs of healthcare may impose additional administrative costs. The costs and other effects of these healthcare requirements are not anticipated to have a significant effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in fiscal year 2018 but they may significantly increase our Restaurant Group companies' healthcare coverage costs in future periods and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, the PPACA, in part, amended the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, to require chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the U.S. to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. Although the Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") has published final regulations to implement the nutritional menu labeling provisions, it has extended the compliance date until May 7, 2018, for those covered by the rule. We do not expect our restaurant businesses to incur any material costs from compliance with this provision, but cannot anticipate any changes in customer behavior resulting from the implementation of this portion of the law, which could have an adverse effect on our Restaurant Group companies' sales and results of operations. A number of states, counties and cities have also enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another.. There is also a potential for increased regulation of certain food establishments in the U.S., where compliance with Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points (\"HACCP\") management systems may now be required. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required. 8. Table of Contents. restaurants to develop and implement HACCP programs and the U.S. government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act, signed into law in January 2011, granted the FDA new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. We anticipate that the new requirements may impact the restaurant industry. Additionally, our Restaurant Group companies' suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require the Restaurant Group companies' to take actions that could be costly for them or otherwise harm their business.. In addition, in order to develop and construct restaurants, the Restaurant Group companies must comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Such regulations have not had a material effect on its operations to date, but more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies could delay or prevent construction and increase development costs for new restaurants. The Restaurant Group companies are also subject to federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other accessibility standards as mandated by the Americans with Disabilities Act (the \"ADA\"), which generally, among other things, prohibits discrimination in accommodation or employment based on disability. The ADA became effective as to public accommodations and employment in 1992. Pursuant to the ADA, our restaurant businesses may in the future have to modify restaurants, by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures for example, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. While these expenses could be material, the Restaurant Group companies' current expectation is that any such actions will not require substantial capital expenditures.. The Restaurant Group companies are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. There also has been increasing focus by the U.S. on other environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters, such as the emission of greenhouse gases, and \"cap and trade\" initiatives could effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts to combat climate change or other environmental concerns could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, commodities, taxes, transportation and utilities, which could decrease our Restaurant Group companies' operating profits and necessitate future investments in facilities and equipment.. The Restaurant Group companies are subject to laws and regulations relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, gift cards and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived or alleged failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm their reputation or lead to litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or an insufficient or ineffective response to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our Restaurant Group companies' cost structure or lessen their operational efficiencies and talent availability, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase the Restaurant Group companies' exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.. Restaurant companies, including our restaurant companies, are the target of claims and lawsuits from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial costs and damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Restaurant Group companies and other restaurant companies have been subject to claims and lawsuits alleging various matters from time to time in the ordinary course of business, including those that follow. Claims and lawsuits may include class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted from time to time alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal deductions, the sharing of tips amongst certain employees, overtime eligibility of assistant managers and failure to pay for all hours worked. Although our restaurant businesses will maintain what we believe to be adequate levels of insurance, insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these matters. Accordingly, if our restaurant businesses are required to pay substantial damages and expenses as a result of these types or other lawsuits, such payments or expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Occasionally, our Restaurant Group companies' customers may file complaints or lawsuits against the Restaurant Group companies alleging that they are responsible for some illness or injury the customers suffered at or after a visit to one of the Restaurant Group companies' restaurants, including actions seeking damages resulting from food-borne illness and relating to notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products required under state law. Our Restaurant Group companies may also be subject to a variety of other claims from third parties arising in the ordinary course of their business, including personal injury. 9. Table of Contents. claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state laws. In addition, most of our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants are subject to state \"dram shop\" or similar laws which generally allow a person to sue our restaurant businesses if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our Restaurant Group companies' restaurants. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers. In addition, the Restaurant Group companies may also be subject to lawsuits from their employees or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits in the restaurant industry have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants.. Additionally, certain of the Restaurant Group companies' tax returns and employment practices are subject to audits by the IRS and various state tax authorities. Such audits could result in disputes regarding tax matters that could lead to litigation that would be costly to defend or could result in the payment of additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Regardless of whether any claims against the Restaurant Group companies are valid or whether they are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from their operations. In addition, such claims may generate negative publicity, which could reduce customer traffic and sales. Although our restaurant businesses will maintain what they believe to be adequate levels of insurance, insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. Defense costs, even for unfounded claims, or a judgment or other liability in excess of our restaurant businesses' insurance coverage for any claims or any adverse publicity resulting from claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Restaurant Group companies rely heavily on information technology and any material failure, interruption, or security breach in their systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Restaurant Group companies rely heavily on information technology systems across their operations and corporate functions, including for order and delivery from suppliers and distributors, point-of-sale processing in their restaurants, management of their supply chains, payment of obligations, collection of cash, bakery production, data warehousing to support analytics, finance or accounting systems, labor optimization tools, gift cards, online business and various other processes and transactions, including the storage of employee and customer information. The Restaurant Group companies' ability to effectively manage their business and coordinate the production, distribution and sale of their products will depend significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. In August 2015, the Restaurant Group companies upgraded their information systems using a third-party provider. However, the failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our restaurant businesses' operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem.. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers and employees have a high expectation that our restaurant businesses will adequately protect their personal information. The majority of our restaurant businesses' restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. We and other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. For example, a cyber-security investigation at O'Charley's identified signs of unauthorized access to the payment card network of O'Charley's restaurants from March 18, 2016 to April 8, 2016, during which period credit cards used at all O'Charley's restaurants (other than three franchised locations) may have been affected. In connection with this matter, ABRH has reimbursed Fifth Third Bank for fines arising under the MasterCard Security Rules and Procedures (Merchant Edition) in the amount of $0.6 million. ABRH has also reimbursed Fifth Third Bank for an assessment under the VISA Global Compromised Account Recovery (GCAR) rules and PCI penalty in the amount of $1.8 million.  ABRH has received insurance reimbursements equal to $2.0 million relating to the MasterCard and VISA assessments.  Any additional amounts imposed by other card issuers will depend on a variety of factors, including the specific facts and circumstances of the incident (e.g., how many cards were used to make unauthorized purchases) and the exercise of discretion by each card network. O'Charley's could also face lawsuits by individual cardholders for unauthorized charges if the individuals are not fully compensated by the card brands. However, individual cardholders generally have no liability for unauthorized charges under the card brand rules, and O'Charley's has received no notice of any such lawsuits to date.. In addition, any breach in customer payment information could result in investigations by the U.S. Secret Service Electronic Crimes Task Force (\"ECTF\") and increased cost in our restaurant businesses' efforts to cooperate with the ECTF.. The Restaurant Group companies also maintain certain personal information regarding their employees. In addition to government investigations, the Restaurant Group companies may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of their customers' credit or debit card information or if customer or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately. If the Restaurant Group companies fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee or company. 10. Table of Contents. data, their reputation could be damaged and they could experience lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Additionally, if a person is able to circumvent the security measures intended to protect our Restaurant Group companies' employee or customer private data, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information and disrupt our restaurant businesses' operations. The Restaurant Group companies may also be required to incur additional costs to modify or enhance their systems in order to prevent or remediate any such attacks.. The success of the Restaurant Group depends, in part, on its intellectual property, which we may be unable to protect.. We regard our service marks, including \"O'Charley's\", \"Ninety Nine\", \"Village Inn\", \"Legendary Baking\", and \"Bakers Square\", and other service marks and trademarks as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our restaurants. We have also obtained trademarks for several of our menu items and for various advertising slogans. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks and trademarks used by other persons in certain geographic areas where we have restaurants. We believe such uses will not adversely affect us and our policy is to pursue registration of our marks whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of our marks.. We license the use of our registered trademarks and service marks to franchisees and third parties through franchise arrangements and licenses. The franchise and license arrangements restrict franchisees' and licensees' activities with respect to the use of our trademarks and service marks, and impose quality control standards in connection with goods and services offered in connection with the trademarks and service marks.. Occasionally, third parties may assert that we are, or may be, infringing on or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. In these cases, we intend to defend against claims or negotiate licenses when we consider these actions appropriate.  Intellectual property cases are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If we become involved in this type of litigation, it could consume significant resources and divert our attention from business operations.. If we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could incur significant damages, be enjoined from continuing to use certain marks, or be required to obtain a license to continue using the affected marketing and promotional materials. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our marketing plan to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impracticable.. Factors Relating to Ceridian. General economic factors could have a material adverse effect on Ceridian's financial performance and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. General economic conditions and trade, monetary and fiscal policies impact Ceridian's business and the industries it serves. The Ceridian business has been negatively affected in the past by weak global and U.S. and Canadian economic environments which have included high unemployment rates, low interest rates and soft retail sales. Although elements of the challenging economic environment have become more favorable or stabilized in at least the U.S. and Canada, a prolonged slowdown in the economy or other economic conditions affecting overall unemployment levels, business and consumer spending and retail strength may adversely affect Ceridian's operating results by, among other things, decreasing its revenue through low customer employee counts or amounts of employee wage and bonus payments, diminished or slowing customer orders and timing of product installations and reduced spending on outsourcing or pressure to renegotiate existing contacts. Additionally, lower interest rates and risk associated with certain investment options have caused a decrease in Ceridian's revenue from interest in customer funds held in trust. Should global economic conditions deteriorate, the related impact on available credit may also adversely affect Ceridian or its business partners and customers by reducing access to capital or credit, increasing cost of debt and limiting ability to manage interest rate risk, and increasing the risk of bankruptcy of parties with which Ceridian does business, including credit or debt related counterparties. Such economic conditions and uncertainties may also adversely affect Ceridian and its business partners and customers through increased investment related risks by decreasing liquidity and/or increasing investment losses. In addition, Ceridian is dependent upon various large banks to execute payment transactions as part of its client payroll and tax services.. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions and similar laws could have a material adverse effect on Ceridian's reputation, and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, anti-money laundering laws and regulations and economic and trade sanctions. Such heightened scrutiny has resulted in more aggressive enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, which could adversely impact Ceridian's business. We will operate Ceridian around the world, including in some economies where companies and government officials may be more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Ceridian will also be subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in. 11. Table of Contents. certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others.. Ceridian has implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic and trade sanctions, and annually reviews and evaluates the suitability of its policies; however, there can be no assurance that none of Ceridian's employees, consultants or agents will take actions in violation of these policies, for which Ceridian may be ultimately responsible, or that Ceridian's policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators. Any violations of applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations or economic and trade sanctions could limit certain of Ceridian's business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines that could damage its reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, bank regulators are imposing additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their obligations under The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and banks are, therefore, placing increased scrutiny on vendors and partners. As a result, Ceridian's banking partners may limit the scope of services they provide to Ceridian or may impose additional requirements on Ceridian. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks' internal risk-based policies and procedures may place an additional burden on Ceridian operations, or may require Ceridian to change the manner in which it conducts some aspects of its business, which may decrease its revenues and earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ceridian's indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In November 2014, Ceridian HCM Holding Inc. entered in a senior secured credit facility (the \"Ceridian Credit Facility\") with Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent and Deutsche Bank AG Canada Branch, as Canadian sub-agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto. The Ceridian Credit Facility provides for (i) a revolving credit facility with aggregate commitments in the amount of $130.0 million (the \"Ceridian Revolver\") consisting of an $88.4 million sub-facility for U.S. Dollar revolving loans and a $41.6 million sub-facility for multicurrency revolving loans and (ii) a term loan in the initial principal amount of $702.0 million (the \"Ceridian Term Loan\"), plus an accordion feature granting Ceridian the ability to increase the size of the facilities on the terms specified in the Ceridian Credit Facility. In October 2013, Ceridian issued senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the \"Ceridian Notes\", and together with the Ceridian Credit Facility, the \"Ceridian Debt Facilities\") pursuant to that certain Indenture with Wells Fargo Bank National Association in an original principal amount of $475.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, the Ceridian Revolver had no outstanding principal amount, the Ceridian Term Loan had an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $657.3 million and the Ceridian Notes had an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $475.0 million.. The Ceridian Debt Facilities contain, among other things, restrictive covenants that limit Ceridian and its subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The Ceridian Debt Facilities restrict, among other things, Ceridian's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness or issue guarantees, create liens on their respective assets, make distributions on or redeem equity interests, make investments, transfer or sell properties or other assets, and engage in mergers, consolidations or other fundamental change transactions, engage in transactions with affiliates and/or enter into burdensome agreements, in each case, subject to certain customary exceptions. In addition, if the usage of the Ceridian Revolver exceeds a specified threshold, the Ceridian Credit Facility will require Ceridian to meet a specified financial ratio.. The Ceridian indebtedness, including the related restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on Ceridian, and its other financial obligations could have important consequences to us, such as:. • increasing Ceridian's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have relatively less indebtedness;. • requiring Ceridian to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Ceridian's indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, selling and marketing efforts, service and product development and other purposes;. • exposing Ceridian to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of its borrowings, including borrowings under the Ceridian Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest;. • restricting Ceridian from making strategic acquisitions, causing it to make non-strategic divestitures, or limiting its ability to engage in acts that may be in its long-term best interests (including merging or consolidating with another person, selling or otherwise disposing of all or substantially all of Ceridian's assets, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring its capital stock, subordinated debt or certain other debt or incurring or guaranteeing additional debt);. • limiting Ceridian's planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates; and. • limiting Ceridian's ability to adjust to changing market conditions.. 12. Table of Contents. If Ceridian fails to make any required payment under its indebtedness or to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants related thereto, it will be in default. Ceridian's lenders could then vote to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and, in the case of the Ceridian Credit Facility, foreclose upon Ceridian and its subsidiaries' assets securing such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness. If any of Ceridian's creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, Ceridian may not have sufficient assets to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness.. A breach of Ceridian's security, loss of customer data or system disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ceridian is dependent on its respective payroll, transaction, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. Ceridian relies on these systems to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. Any security breach in these business processes and/or systems has the potential to impact Ceridian's customer information and its financial reporting capabilities which could result in the potential loss of business and its ability to accurately report financial results. If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, Ceridian could potentially lose control of customer data and Ceridian could suffer financial loss, a disruption of its businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to its reputation.. In addition, any issue of data privacy as it relates to unauthorized access to or loss of customer and/or employee information could result in the potential loss of business, damage to Ceridian's market reputation, litigation and regulatory investigation and penalties. Ceridian's continued investment in the security of its IT systems, continued efforts to improve the controls within its IT systems, business processes improvements, and the enhancements to its culture of information security may not successfully prevent attempts to breach its security or unauthorized access to confidential, sensitive or proprietary information.. In addition, in the event of a catastrophic occurrence, either natural or man-made, Ceridian's ability to protect its infrastructure, including client data, and maintain ongoing operations could be significantly impaired. Ceridian's business continuity and disaster recovery plans and strategies may not be successful in mitigating the effects of a catastrophic occurrence. If Ceridian's security is breached, confidential information is accessed or it experiences a catastrophic occurrence, such an occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Litigation and governmental inquiries, investigations and proceedings related to Ceridian could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ceridian may be adversely affected by judgments, settlements, unanticipated costs or other effects of legal and administrative proceedings now pending or that may be instituted in the future, or from investigations by regulatory bodies or administrative agencies. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, Ceridian has had inquiries from regulatory bodies and administrative agencies relating to the operation of its business. It is Ceridian's practice to cooperate with such inquiries. Such inquiries may result in various audits, reviews and investigations. An adverse outcome of any investigation by, or other inquiries from, such bodies or agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in the institution of administrative or civil proceedings, sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties, changes in personnel, and increased review and scrutiny of Ceridian by its customers, regulatory authorities, the media and others. Ceridian is also subject to claims and a number of judicial and administrative proceedings considered normal in the course of its current and past operations, including employment-related disputes, contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, government audits and proceedings, customer disputes and tort claims. Responding to such claims may be difficult and expensive, and Ceridian may not prevail. In some proceedings, the claimant seeks damages as well as other relief, which, if granted, would require expenditures on Ceridian's part. There can be no certainty that Ceridian may not ultimately incur charges in excess of presently or established future financial accruals or insurance coverage, or that Ceridian would prevail. Whether or not Ceridian prevails, such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The failure of Ceridian's business to comply with applicable laws could result in substantial taxes, penalties and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Ceridian is subject to various laws and regulations, and its failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. For example, Ceridian's customers remit employer and employee tax funds to its businesses. Ceridian processes the data received from its customers and remits the funds along with a tax return to the appropriate taxing authorities when due. Under various service agreements with its customers, Ceridian assumes financial responsibility for the payment of the taxes, penalties and liabilities assessed against its customers arising out of its failure to fulfill its obligations under its agreements with these customers, unless these taxes, penalties or liabilities are attributable to the customer's failure to comply with the terms of the agreement the customer has with Ceridian. These taxes, penalties and liabilities could, in some cases, be substantial and could adversely affect Ceridian's business and operating results. Additionally, Ceridian's failure to fulfill its obligations under its customer agreements could adversely affect Ceridian's reputation, its relationship with its customers and its ability to gain new customers. In addition, mistakes may occur in connection with this service. Ceridian and its customers may be subject to penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings or underpayment of taxes.. 13. Table of Contents. Ceridian is subject to risks related to its international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approximately 31% of Ceridian's revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017 was obtained from its international operations. Ceridian's Canada operations provide certain human capital management (\"HCM\") services for Ceridian's Canadian customers. Ceridian is continuing to expand its international HCM business into other countries by (i) engaging a partner within a country to provide it with managed payroll administration and processing services for that country and (ii) expanding the features and functionality of its Dayforce product for use in such other countries. As such, Ceridian's international operations are subject to risks that could adversely affect those operations or its business as a whole, including costs of localizing products and services for foreign customers; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; difficulties and increased expenses introducing corporate policies and controls in its international operations; difficulties with or inability to engage global partners; reduced or varied protection of intellectual property and other legal rights in some countries; longer sales and payment cycles; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA; exposure to legal jurisdictions that may not recognize or interpret customer contracts appropriately; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; exposure to local economic and political conditions; and changes in currency exchange rates.. In addition, we anticipate that Ceridian's customers and potential customers may increasingly require and demand that a single vendor provide HCM solutions and services for their employees in a number of countries. If Ceridian is unable to provide the required services on a multinational basis, there may be a negative impact on its new orders and customer retention, which would negatively impact revenue and earnings. Although Ceridian has a multinational strategy, additional investment and efforts may be necessary to implement such strategy.. Factors Relating to T-System. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated at the local, state and federal levels. T-System's failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect T-System's business.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is constantly evolving due to the changing political, legislative and regulatory landscapes. In some instances, to the extent that they are subject to these laws and regulations, these regulations directly impact T-System's business. However, these regulations also impact T-System's business indirectly as, in a number of circumstances, T-System's solutions and services must be capable of being used by its customers in a way that complies with those laws and regulations, even though T-System's may not be directly regulated by the specific healthcare laws and regulations. There is a significant number of wide-ranging regulations, including regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud, e-prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (\"ARRA\") meaningful use program, and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to T-System's operations and relationships or the business practices of its customers.. Economic, market and other factors may cause a decline in spending for information technology and services by T-System's current and prospective customers which may result in less demand for its products, lower prices and, consequently, lower revenues and a lower revenue growth rate.. The purchase of T-System's information system involves a significant financial commitment by its customers. At the same time, the healthcare industry faces significant financial pressures that could adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services. For example, the recent actual and potential reductions in federal and state funding for Medicare and Medicaid has caused hospitals to reduce, eliminate or postpone information technology related and other spending. To the extent spending for healthcare information technology and services declines or increases slower than T-System's anticipates, demand for its products and services, as well as the prices it charges, could be adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that T-System will be able to increase or maintain its revenues or its revenue growth rate.. If T-System's security is breached, it could be subject to liability, and clients could be deterred from using its products and services.. T-System's business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage and hosting of sensitive information, including Protected Health Information (\"PHI\"), financial information and other sensitive information relating to its clients, company and workforce. As a result, T-System faces risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to its computer systems or data that could result in the misappropriation or loss of assets or the disclosure of sensitive information, the corruption of data, or other disruption of its business operations. Similarly, denial-of-service, ransomware or other Internet-based attacks may range from mere vandalism of T-System's electronic systems to systematic theft of sensitive information and intellectual property. We believe that, in recent years, companies in T-System's industry have been targeted by such events with increasing frequency, primarily due to the increasing value of healthcare-related data.. 14. Table of Contents. Various risks could affect T-System's worldwide operations, exposing it to significant costs.. T-System conducts operations in the United States, India, and the Philippines, either directly or through its service providers. Such worldwide operations expose T-System to potential operational disruptions and costs as a result of a wide variety of events, including local inflation or economic downturn, currency exchange fluctuations, political turmoil, terrorism, labor issues, natural disasters, unfavorable intellectual property protection, and pandemics. Any such disruptions or costs could have a negative effect on T-System's ability to provide its services or meet its contractual obligations, the cost of its services, client and user satisfaction, its ability to attract or maintain clients and users, and, ultimately, its profits.. Factors Relating to the Company's Corporate and Other Businesses. Competition and technology may erode the Corporate and Other business franchises and result in lower earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Each of the Corporate and Other businesses face intense competitive pressures within markets in which they operate. While we will manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our Corporate and Other businesses are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our Corporate and Other businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results in the future may decline from current levels.. The Corporate and Other businesses, from time to time in the ordinary course of business, are involved in legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporate and Other businesses, from time to time in the ordinary course of business, are involved in pending and threatened litigation matters, some of which include claims for punitive or exemplary damages. These companies are also subject to compliance with extensive government laws and regulations related to employment practices and policies. The Corporate and Other businesses may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to their satisfaction, and these matters may involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief that might necessitate changes to their business or operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive and their outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty. Determining reserves for pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant legal judgment. It is possible that unfavorable outcomes in one or more such proceedings could result in substantial payments that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporate and Other businesses' cash flows in a particular period or on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws or regulations applicable to the Corporate and Other businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Corporate and Other businesses will be subject to certain laws, such as certain environmental laws, takeover laws, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, escheat or abandoned property laws, and antitrust laws, that may impose requirements on us and them as an affiliated group. As a result, we could become jointly and severally liable for all or part of fines imposed on our Corporate and Other businesses or be fined directly for violations committed by these businesses, and such fines imposed directly on us could be greater than those imposed on such businesses. Compliance with these laws or contracts could also require us to commit significant resources and capital towards information gathering and monitoring thereby increasing our operating costs.. Similarly, the Corporate and Other businesses may be subject to contractual obligations which may impose obligations or restrictions on their affiliates. The interpretation of such contractual provisions will depend on local laws. Given that we do not control all of the Corporate and Other businesses and that they generally operate independently of each other, there is a risk that we could contravene one or more of such laws, regulations and contractual arrangements due to limited access and opportunities to monitor compliance. In addition, compliance with these laws or contracts could require us to commit significant resources and capital towards information gathering and monitoring thereby increasing our operating costs.. We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our Corporate and Other businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct day-to-day business activities of our Corporate and Other businesses. Our Corporate and Other businesses also need qualified and competent personnel in executing their business plans and serving their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively impact our Corporate and Other businesses' ability to meet demands of customers to supply goods and services. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is important to all of our Corporate and Other businesses' operations. Although our Corporate and Other businesses have adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for goods and services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. 15. Table of Contents. Factors Relating to the Company's Investments. Our management may seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our current areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management's attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our current portfolio companies. Accordingly, we may in the future acquire businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our current businesses.. The acquisition and integration of any business we may acquire involves a number of risks and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired business. Furthermore, acquisitions may:. • involve our entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience;. • involve difficulties in retaining the customers of the acquired business;. • involve difficulties and expense associated with regulatory requirements, competition controls or investigations;. • result in a delay or reduction of sales for both us and the business we acquire; and. • disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business.. To complete future acquisitions, we may determine that it is necessary to use a substantial amount of our cash or engage in equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters that make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital in the future and to pursue other business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. Moreover, we can make no assurances that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as operating improvements or anticipated cost savings, would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unexpected liabilities in connection with any acquisition.. Further, an acquisition may negatively affect our operating results because it may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation and amortization of deferred compensation charges, may require the amortization, write-down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, may include substantial contingent consideration payments or other compensation that reduce our earnings during the quarter in which incurred, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset acquisition costs.. We may often pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As an element of our investment style, we may pursue unusually complex investment opportunities. This could often take the form of substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity. Our tolerance for complexity may present risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming to finance and execute; it may be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets acquired in such transactions; and such transactions may sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. Any of these risks could harm our performance.. The loss of key personnel could impair our operating abilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will substantially depend on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team and officers. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our operating results and in turn the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Although we will have employment agreements with many of our officers, there can be no assurance that the entire term of the employment agreement will be served or that the employment agreement will be renewed upon expiration.. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with new acquisitions may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment.. Before making acquisitions, we will conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisers, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an acquisition, we will rely on the resources. 16. Table of Contents. available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts (including fraud) that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such opportunity. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful.. Factors Relating to the Split-Off. We may incur material costs as a result of our separation from FNF, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We will incur costs and expenses not previously incurred as a result of our separation from FNF. These increased costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including financial reporting, costs associated with complying with the federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, tax administration and human resources related functions.) Although FNF will continue to provide many of these services for us at no-cost (other than reimbursement of FNF's out-of-pocket costs and expenses) under the corporate services agreement for up to three years following the Split-Off. If the corporate services agreement is not mutually terminated by Cannae Holdings and FNF prior to the expiration of the initial three-year term, the corporate services agreement will automatically renew for successive one-year terms on mutually agreeable arm's length terms unless FNF and Cannae Holdings mutually agree to terminate the agreement. We cannot assure you that we will not incur third-party vendor costs or out-of-pocket expenses under the corporate services agreement that are material to our business. Moreover, we will have to develop internal departments/functions to perform the services at the end of the term of the corporate services agreement.. Our company has an overlapping director and overlapping officers with FNF, which may lead to conflicting interests.. Four of our executive officers, Brent B. Bickett, Richard L. Cox, Michael L. Gravelle and David Ducommun, are also employed by FNF or FNF's subsidiaries and one of our directors, William P. Foley, II, also serves on the boards of directors of FNF or its subsidiaries. Our executive officers and members of our board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at FNF or any other public company have fiduciary duties to that company's stockholders. We also are party to a variety of related party agreements and relationships with FNF and certain of FNF's subsidiaries and FNF and subsidiaries of FNF have an ownership interest in Cannae Holdings. From time to time, we may enter into transactions with FNF and/or its respective subsidiaries or other affiliates. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to our company, FNF or any of our or its respective subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officer or director.. Our inter-company agreements were negotiated while we were a subsidiary of FNF.. We have a number of inter-company agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by FNF for certain of our businesses. In addition, we have entered into (i) a corporate services agreement with FNF, pursuant to which FNF provides to us certain \"back office\" services at no-cost (other than reimbursement of FNF's out-of-pocket costs and expenses), (ii) a voting agreement with FNF, pursuant to which FNF agrees to appear or cause all shares of Cannae Holdings common stock that FNF or its subsidiaries, as applicable, own after the Split-Off to be counted as present at any meeting of the stockholders of Cannae Holdings, for the purpose of establishing a quorum, and agrees to vote all of such Cannae Holdings shares (or cause them to be voted) in the same manner as, and in the same proportion to, all shares voted by holders of Cannae Holdings common stock (other than FNF and its subsidiaries), (iii) a registration rights agreement, pursuant to which FNF or its subsidiaries, as applicable, received registration rights with respect to the shares in Cannae held by FNF and (iv) a revolver note with FNF, pursuant to which Cannae Holdings may borrow revolving loans, the proceeds of which may be used for investment purposes and working capital needs, from FNF from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100.0 million. The terms of all of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of FNF, and hence may not be the result of arm's length negotiations. We believe that the terms of these inter-company agreements are commercially reasonable and fair to all parties under the circumstances; however, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of the foregoing agreements after the Split-Off.. Factors Relating to the Company's Common Stock and the Securities Market. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on management's assessment of those matters. Our compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will first be tested in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. The rules governing. 17. Table of Contents. the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules.. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer.. Our charter, bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and provisions of the Delaware General Corporate Law (\"DGCL\"), could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, as applicable, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our charter and bylaws:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by us upon approval of our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares of capital stock, making a takeover more difficult and expensive;. • provide that directors may be removed from office only for cause and that any vacancy on our board of directors may only be filled by a majority of our directors then in office, which may make it difficult for other stockholders to reconstitute our board of directors;. • provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only upon the request of a majority of our board of directors or by our executive chairman, chief executive officer or president, as applicable;. • require advance notice to be given by stockholders for any stockholder proposals or director nominees;. • provide that directors are elected by a plurality of the votes cast by stockholders, which results in each director nominee elected by a plurality winning his or her seat upon receiving one \"for\" vote; and. • provide that the board of directors is divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with one class being elected at each annual meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from seeking to acquire, control of Cannae.. These restrictions and provisions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of our company."
