[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. An investment in securities issued by us involves various risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this document before purchasing our securities.  The risks discussed herein can adversely affect our business, liquidity, operating results, financial condition and future prospects, causing the market price of our securities to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of an investment in our stock.  The risk factors described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may adversely affect our business, liquidity, earnings and financial condition.. 4. Risks Related to Our Business. Changes in interest rates, whether increases or decreases, may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  Our earnings depend primarily on the difference between the interest received on our residential mortgage investments and the interest paid on our secured borrowings, adjusted for the effects of derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes.  Our investments consist almost exclusively of ARM Agency Securities that are typically financed at 30- to 90-day interest rates.  Coupon interest rates on only a portion of the ARM loans underlying our securities reset each month and the terms of these ARM loans generally limit the amount of any increases during any single interest rate adjustment period and over the life of a loan.  Consequently, interest rates on secured borrowings not effectively fixed through the use of interest rate swap agreements or similar derivatives can rise to levels that may exceed yields on these securities in a rising short-term interest rate environment.  This can contribute to lower, or in more extreme circumstances, negative financing spreads and, therefore, adversely affect earnings.  During periods of relatively low short-term interest rates, declines in the indices used to determine coupon interest rate resets for ARM loans may adversely affect yields on our ARM securities as the underlying ARM loans reset at lower rates.  If declines in these indices exceed declines in our borrowing rates, earnings would be adversely affected.. An increase in prepayments may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  Prepayment expectations are an essential part of pricing ARM Agency Securities in the marketplace and the speed of prepayments can vary widely from month to month and across individual securities; however prolonged periods of high mortgage prepayments can significantly reduce the expected life of our portfolio.  Therefore, actual yields we realize can be lower due to faster amortization of investment premiums, which could adversely affect earnings.  High levels of mortgage prepayments can also lead to larger than anticipated demands on our liquidity from our lending counterparties.  Additionally, periods of high prepayments can adversely affect pricing for ARM Agency Securities in general and, as a result, book value per common share can be adversely affected due to declines in the fair value of our remaining portfolio and the elimination of any unrealized gains on that portion of the portfolio that pays off.. Monetary policy actions by the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  Since 2008 the Federal Reserve has employed a number of relatively unorthodox policy initiatives, most notably by inserting itself into the markets as a dominant buyer of U.S. Treasury securities and fixed-rate Agency Securities.  This market intervention resulted in a significant expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and is often referred to as quantitative easing or QE.  In general, QE elevated pricing levels for Agency Securities resulting in lower yields on new purchases, lower mortgage interest rates and higher mortgage prepayment rates.. In October 2017, the Federal Reserve began reducing its existing holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and fixed-rate Agency Securities by gradually decreasing the amount of securities it would purchase to replace portfolio runoff, with the stated goal of reducing the portfolio by $10 billion per month in the fourth quarter of 2017, with such reductions increasing quarterly until reaching $50 billon per month in October 2018.  As the buy-side support of such a large market participant is removed, pricing for fixed-rate, and to a lesser extent, ARM Agency Securities could be negatively affected.  In addition, should the Federal Reserve decide to eventually reduce its holdings of fixed-rate Agency Securities through asset sales, the pricing for all Agency Securities could decline.  These actions could adversely affect our liquidity, earnings and book value per common share.. 5. Our strategy involves significant leverage, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  We expect our leverage to vary with market conditions and our assessment of the risk and return on our investments. We incur leverage by borrowing against a significant portion of the market value of our assets. The leverage we incur is fundamental to our investment strategy and could enhance our returns, however it also creates significant risks to our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.. Periods of illiquidity in the mortgage markets may reduce amounts available under secured borrowing arrangements due to declines in the perceived value of related collateral, which could adversely impact our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  We finance our portfolio by pledging individual securities as collateral under uncommitted secured borrowing arrangements.  The amount borrowed is limited to a percentage of the market value of the pledged collateral.  The portion of the pledged collateral held by or pledged to the lender in excess of the amount borrowed is referred to as margin collateral and the resulting margin percentage is required to be maintained throughout the term of the borrowing.  If the perceived market value of the pledged collateral as determined by our lenders declines, we may be subject to margin calls wherein the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to reestablish the agreed-upon margin percentage.  Because market illiquidity tends to put downward pressure on asset prices, we may be presented with substantial margin calls during such periods.  If we are unable or unwilling to pledge additional collateral, lenders can liquidate the collateral or seek other remedies, potentially under adverse market conditions, resulting in losses.  At such times we may determine that it is prudent to sell assets to improve our ability to pledge sufficient collateral to support our remaining secured borrowings, which could result in losses.  In addition, lower pricing levels for remaining investments will lead to declines in book value per common share.. Periods of illiquidity in the mortgage markets may reduce the number of counterparties willing to lend to us and/or the amounts individual counterparties are willing to lend, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  We enter into secured borrowing arrangements with numerous commercial banks and other financial institutions, both foreign and domestic, routinely with maturities of 30 to 90 days.  Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to re-establish or roll maturing secured borrowings on a continuous basis and none of our counterparties are obligated to enter into new borrowing transactions at the conclusion of existing transactions.  If a counterparty chooses not to roll a maturing borrowing, we must pay off the borrowing, generally with cash available from another secured borrowing arrangement entered into with another counterparty.  If we determine that we do not have sufficient borrowing capacity with our remaining counterparties, we could be forced to sell assets under potentially adverse market conditions, which could result in losses.  An industry-wide reduction in the availability of secured borrowings could adversely affect pricing levels for Agency Securities leading to further declines in our liquidity and book value per common share.  Under these conditions, we may determine that it is prudent to sell assets to improve our ability to pledge sufficient collateral to support our remaining borrowings, which could result in losses.  In addition, lower pricing levels for remaining investments will lead to declines in book value per common share.. Legislative and additional regulatory actions could adversely affect the availability and/or terms and conditions of secured borrowings and consequently, our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  Changes in regulatory capital requirements and other leverage constraints continue to be implemented worldwide.  It remains unclear how significant of an impact these changes will have on the financial markets in general and on our strategy of holding a leveraged portfolio of ARM Agency Securities.  However, it is possible that the availability and/or terms and conditions of secured borrowings could be adversely affected which could adversely affect our liquidity, earnings and book value per common share.. 6. If we are unable to negotiate favorable terms and conditions on future secured borrowings with one or more of our lending counterparties, our liquidity, financial condition and earnings could be adversely impacted.  The terms and conditions of each secured borrowing arrangement are negotiated on a transaction-by-transaction basis.  Key terms and conditions include interest rates, maturity dates, asset pricing procedures and margin requirements.  We cannot assure investors that we will be able to continue to negotiate favorable terms and conditions on future secured borrowings.  During periods of market illiquidity or due to perceived credit deterioration of the collateral pledged or of us, a lender may require that less favorable asset pricing procedures be employed, margin requirements be increased and/or may choose to limit or completely curtail lending to us.  Under these conditions, we may determine it is prudent to sell assets to improve our ability to pledge sufficient collateral to support our remaining secured borrowings, which could result in losses.. Potential changes in the relationship between the federal government and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  Agency Securities are considered to have limited, if any, credit risk because the timely payment of principal and interest on these securities are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or by Ginnie Mae.  Only the guarantee by Ginnie Mae is explicitly backed by the full faith and credit of the federal government.  The high actual or perceived credit quality of ARM Agency Securities allows us to finance our portfolio using secured borrowing arrangements with favorable interest rate terms and margin requirements that otherwise would not be available.. A significantly reduced role by the federal government or other changes in the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, or their successors could adversely affect the credit profile and pricing of existing holdings and/or future issuances of ARM Agency Securities and whether our strategy of holding a leveraged portfolio of short-duration ARM Agency Securities remains viable, which could adversely affect earnings and book value per common share.. The lack of availability of suitable investments at attractive pricing may adversely affect our earnings.  The pricing of investments is determined by a number of factors including interest rate levels and expectations, market liquidity conditions, and competition among investors for these investments, many of whom have greater financial resources and lower return requirements than us.  If proceeds from capital raising activities are not deployed or cannot be deployed at rates of return being earned on existing capital, earnings may be adversely affected.  We cannot assure investors that we will be able to acquire suitable investments at attractive pricing and in a timely manner to replace portfolio runoff as it occurs or to deploy new capital as it is raised.  Neither can we assure investors that we will maintain the current composition of our investments, consisting almost exclusively of ARM Agency Securities.. We may sell assets for various reasons, including a change in our investment focus or business strategy, which could increase earnings volatility.  We may periodically sell assets to enhance our liquidity during periods of market illiquidity or rising interest rates or we may change our investment focus or business strategy requiring us to sell some portion of our existing investments.  Gains or losses resulting from any such asset sales, or from terminating any related longer-maturity secured borrowings or interest rate swap agreements, could increase the our earnings volatility.. Our use of borrowings under repurchase arrangements may expose us to losses if a lending counterparty seeks bankruptcy protection, or otherwise defaults on its obligation to deliver pledged collateral back to us.  Repurchase arrangements involve the sale and transfer of pledged collateral to the lending counterparty and a simultaneous agreement to repurchase the transferred assets at a future date.  This may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets if a lender files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to deliver pledged collateral back to us and subject us to losses to the extent of any margin amounts (pledged assets in excess of amounts borrowed) held by the lending counterparty.. 7. Our use of borrowings under repurchase arrangements may give lending counterparties greater rights if we seek bankruptcy protection.  Borrowings under repurchase arrangements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  If we file for bankruptcy, these lending counterparties could avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and liquidate pledged collateral without delay, which could result in losses to the extent of any margin amounts held by the lending counterparties.. We invest in derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swap agreements to mitigate or hedge our interest rate risk, which may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and earnings.  We  invest in such instruments from time to time with the goal of partially offsetting changes in value of our  investments as a result of changes in interest rates and achieving more stable borrowing costs over an extended period.  However, these activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our liquidity, financial condition or earnings.  In addition, counterparties could fail to honor their commitments under the terms of the derivatives or have their credit quality downgraded impairing the value of the derivatives.  In the event of any defaults by counterparties, the Company may have difficulty recovering its cash collateral receivable from its counterparties and may not receive payments provided for under the terms of the derivatives and as a result, the Company may incur losses.. Derivative financial instruments held may fail to qualify for hedge accounting introducing potential volatility to our earnings.  We typically classify derivatives held as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes in order to record the change in fair value of designated derivatives as a component of stockholders' equity rather than in earnings.  If the hedging relationship for any derivative held ceases to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, we would be required to record in earnings the total change in fair value of any such derivative.  In addition we could elect to no longer avail ourself of cash flow hedge accounting for our derivative positions. Such changes could introduce a potentially significant amount of volatility to our earnings.. We are dependent on our executives and employees and the loss of one or more of our executive officers could harm our business and prospects.  We are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees, most of whom have significant experience in the mortgage industry.  We have not acquired key man life insurance policies on any of these individuals.  The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Our securities are recorded at fair value and quoted prices or observable inputs may not be readily available to determine the fair value.  We measure fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. Ultimately, the value of any individual security depends to a large extent on economic and other conditions beyond our control. Our determination of the fair value of our investments includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, which may be difficult to obtain or be unreliable. Fair value is an estimate based on good faith judgement of the price at which an investment can be sold. If we were to liquidate a particular investment, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such is valued.. Any future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our preferred and common stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which could dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidation distributions, may adversely affect the price of our common stock.  We may raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities, if any, preferred stock and lenders with respect to our other borrowings will be entitled to our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our preferred stock has a preference on liquidating distributions and dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings.. 8. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT and Other Tax Matters. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our securities.  Federal income tax laws or the administrative interpretations of those laws can change at any time.  Any such changes in laws or interpretations thereof may apply retroactively and could adversely affect us or our stockholders.  We cannot predict any impact on the value of our securities from adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes.. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a corporation and face substantial tax liability.  We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so qualify.  Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist.  Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status.  Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then:. •  we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct dividends paid to our stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates;. •  any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders;. •  we would not be required to make income distributions; and. •  unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years and, as a result, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced during these years.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our earnings.  We may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets.  For example, we:. •  will be required to pay tax on any undistributed REIT taxable income,. •  may be subject to the \"alternative minimum tax\" on any tax preference items; and. •  may operate taxable REIT subsidiaries subject to tax on any taxable income earned.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.  The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our investments and borrowings by limiting our income in each year from unqualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified real estate assets, to no more than 25% of gross income.  In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from nonqualified hedging transactions, from providing certain services, and from other non-qualifying sources to not more than 5% of annual gross income. As a result, we may have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques.  This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise incur.  If we were to violate the 25% or 5% limitations, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of gross income in excess of those limitations, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect the profitability of these transactions or activities.  If we fail to satisfy the REIT gross income tests we could lose our REIT status for federal income tax purposes unless the failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.  To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts that we distribute to our stockholders, and the ownership of our stock.  We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution.  As a result, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. 9. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.  To qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, United States government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets.  The remainder of our investments in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer.  In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.  Beginning in 2018 the threshold for this limitation is reduced to 20%.  If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences.  As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to our stockholders.  As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders.  To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income.  In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the federal tax laws.  From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders.  If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax or the 4% excise tax in a particular year.  These alternatives could increase our costs and reduce our long-term investment capital.. Distributions payable by us do not qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\"  The maximum tax rate applicable to income from non-REIT corporate qualified dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts or estates is currently 20%.  Distributions of ordinary income payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates.  Although this does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or distributions payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts or estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of REIT stocks.. Recognition of excess inclusion income by us could have adverse consequences to our stockholders.  If we were to modify our investment strategy to invest in Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (\"REMIC\") residual interests, or if any of our assets were deemed to be taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes, we could recognize \"excess inclusion income.\"  Any such excess inclusion income would be allocated to stockholders in proportion to dividends paid and would not be eligible to be offset by any losses of the stockholders.  Further, any such income allocated to stockholders that are tax-exempt entities and not \"disqualified organizations,\" would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. Any stockholders that are foreign persons would be subject to federal income tax at the maximum tax rate and withholding will be required without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaties.  Finally, to the extent that our stock is owned by disqualified organizations (such as certain government-related entities and tax exempt entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income), our charter provides that, in order to prevent the imposition of a penalty tax on us, we may redeem or refuse to transfer any of our shares to such disqualified organizations.. 10. An investment in our securities has various federal, state and local income tax risks that could affect the value of an investor's investment.  We strongly urge investors to consult their own tax advisor concerning the effects of federal, state and local income tax law on an investment in our securities, because of the complex nature of the tax rules applicable to REITs and their stockholders.. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash they receive.  In accordance with guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, a publicly traded REIT should generally be eligible to treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its REIT distribution requirements if each stockholder is permitted to elect to receive his or her distribution in either cash or stock of the REIT (even where there is a limitation on the percentage of the distribution payable in cash, provided that the limitation is at least 20%), subject to the satisfaction of certain guidelines. If too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each stockholder electing to receive cash generally must receive a portion of his or her distribution in cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). If these and certain other requirements are met, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of the distribution paid in stock generally will be a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends would be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly designated as a capital gain dividend) to the extent of the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. holder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, it may be subject to transaction fees (e.g., broker fees or transfer agent fees) and the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of its stock at the time of the sale.  Furthermore, with respect to Non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock.. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. It is uncertain whether and to what extent we will pay dividends in cash and our stock.. Risk Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future.  We intend to continue paying quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed.  This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code.  However, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this filing.  All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as the board may deem relevant from time to time.  There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act of 1940 would adversely affect our results of operations.  The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"40 Act\") exempts from regulation as an investment company any entity that is primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. For over 30 years, the staff of the SEC has interpreted the provisions of the 40 Act to require, among other things, a REIT to maintain at least 55% of its assets directly in qualifying real estate interests and at least 80% of its assets in real estate-related assets in order to be exempt from regulation as an investment company.  Critical to our exemption from regulation as an investment company is the long-standing SEC staff interpretation that so-called whole loan mortgage securities, in which an investor holds all issued certificates with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans, constitute qualifying real estate interests for purposes of the staff's 55% qualifying real estate interest requirement.. 11. Conversely, so-called partial pool mortgage securities presently do not qualify for purposes of meeting the 55% requirement, although they are considered by the staff to be real estate-related assets for purposes of meeting the staff's 80% real estate-related asset requirement.. If the SEC or its staff adopts contrary interpretations of the 40 Act and we and other similar REITs become subject to regulation as investment companies, the industry's use of leverage would be substantially reduced.  Absent a restructuring of our business operations to avoid such regulation, this could require the sale of most of our investments under potentially adverse market conditions resulting in losses and significantly reduce future net interest margins and earnings.. Pursuant to our charter, our Board of Directors has the ability to limit ownership of our capital stock, to the extent necessary to preserve our REIT qualification.  For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter gives the board the ability to repurchase outstanding shares of capital stock from existing stockholders if the directors determine in good faith that the concentration of ownership by such individuals, directly or indirectly, would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed constructively owned by one individual or entity.  As a result, the acquisition of outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively a greater concentration of our outstanding stock than is acceptable for REIT purposes, thereby giving the board the ability to repurchase any excess shares.. Because provisions contained in Maryland law and our charter may have an anti-takeover effect, investors may be prevented from receiving a \"control premium\" for their shares.  Provisions contained in our charter and Maryland general corporation law can delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt, which may prevent stockholders from receiving a \"control premium\" for their shares.  For example, these provisions may defer or prevent tender offers for our common stock or purchases of large blocks of our common stock, thereby limiting the opportunities for our stockholders to receive a premium over then-prevailing market prices.  These provisions include the following:. •  Repurchase rights  -  Repurchase rights granted to our board in our charter limit related investors, including, among other things, any voting group, from owning common stock if the concentration owned would jeopardize our REIT status.. •  Classification of preferred stock  -  Our charter authorizes the board to issue preferred stock and establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued.  These actions can be taken without soliciting stockholder approval and could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us.. •  Statutory provisions  -  We are subject to provisions of Maryland statutory law that restrict business combinations with interested stockholders and restrict voting rights of certain shares acquired in control share acquisitions.  The board has not taken any action to exempt us from these provisions.. •  Other Maryland law elections  -  A provision of Maryland law allows our board, without stockholder approval, to implement various provisions that may deter stockholder efforts to change the composition of our Board of Directors by, among other things, implementing a staggered board, providing that directors are removable only for cause, requiring that a majority of the outstanding shares request a special meeting of stockholders, and providing directors the exclusive right to fill vacancies on the board. Our board has not taken any action to limit its ability to implement any of these provisions in the future, other than to provide, through an unrelated provision of Maryland law, that imposes a majority requirement for the calling of a special meeting of stockholders.. Maryland statutory law provides that an act of a director relating to or affecting an acquisition or a potential acquisition of control of a corporation may not be subject to a higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director.  Hence, directors of Maryland corporations may not be required to act in takeover situations under the same standards as apply in Delaware and certain other corporate jurisdictions.. 12. There are risks associated with ownership of our Series E preferred stock.  Risks associated with ownership of our Series E preferred stock include:. •  Redemption rights  -  The Series E preferred stock is redeemable by us, in whole or in part, at any time on or after May 13, 2018, or pursuant to a Special Optional Redemption Right upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, as both terms are defined in the Series E Articles Supplementary, at a cash redemption price of $25.00 plus all accrued and unpaid dividends to, but not including, the date of redemption, which may be less than the prevailing market price for shares of the Series E preferred stock.. •  Limited conversion rights  -  Holders of shares of the Series E preferred stock may convert into shares of common stock only upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, and only if we do not exercise our Special Optional Redemption Right.  Even if this were to occur, it may not be economically advantageous to convert based on then-existing conversion ratios and trading levels of the common stock.. •  Subordination  -  The Series E preferred stock is subordinate to all of our existing and future debt.  None of the provisions relating to the Series E preferred stock limit our ability to incur future debt.  Future debt may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on, redeem, or pay the liquidation preference on shares of the Series E preferred stock.. •  Dilution through issuance of additional shares of preferred stock  -  Our charter currently authorizes the issuance of up to 100 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The issuance of additional preferred stock on parity with or senior to the Series E preferred stock would dilute the interests of Series E preferred stockholders, and could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem, or pay the liquidation preference on, the Series E preferred stock.  None of the provisions relating to the Series E preferred stock limit our ability to issue additional preferred stock on parity with Series E preferred stock.. •  Limited voting rights  -  Voting rights as a holder of Series E preferred stock are limited.  Our common stock is currently the only class of stock carrying full voting rights. Voting rights for holders of shares of Series E preferred stock exist primarily with respect to (i) adverse changes in the terms of the Series E preferred stock, (ii) the creation of additional classes or series of preferred stock that are senior to the Series E preferred stock, and (iii) the non-payment of six quarterly Series E dividends (whether or not consecutive).. We may change our policies without stockholder approval.  Our board and management determine all of our policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies and may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders.  Policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common and preferred stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions."
