[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations. We have a history of net losses and a short commercialization experience, and we may continue to incur losses.. We were profitable in fiscal 2018 but have incurred net losses in each prior fiscal year since our formation in 1989. For the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017, and 2016, we had net income (losses) of $1.7 million, $(1.8) million, and $(56.0) million, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $327.6 million. We commenced commercial sales of the Peripheral OAS in September 2007 and the Coronary OAS in October 2013, and our short commercialization experience makes it difficult for us to predict future performance. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses for sales and marketing, research and development, and manufacturing as we expand our product offering, launch our business in international markets and continue to commercialize the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS and develop and commercialize future versions of the Peripheral OAS, the Coronary OAS, and any future products. Additionally, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase to support business growth. If we are unable to balance revenue growth and cost management, our operating losses may continue.. We may be unable to sustain our historical revenue growth.. Other than a 4.9% decline in revenue from sales of our Peripheral OAS during fiscal 2016, our revenue from sales of our OAS devices has grown in each of the fiscal years since we began commercialization in September 2007. Our ability to increase our revenues in future periods will depend on our ability to increase sales of the OAS and other products we introduce, which will, in turn, depend in part on our success in growing our customer base and reorders from those customers. We may not be able to generate, sustain or increase revenues on a quarterly or annual basis. If we cannot achieve or sustain revenue growth for an extended period, our financial results will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.. The Peripheral OAS, the Coronary OAS and other products may never achieve broad market acceptance.. The Peripheral OAS, Coronary OAS, and other products we develop or market now or in the future may never gain broad market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including:. • the actual and perceived effectiveness and reliability of our products;. • the prevalence and severity of any adverse patient events involving our products;. • the results of any clinical trials relating to use of our products;. • the availability, relative cost and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative technologies or treatment methods for conditions treated by our products;. • the degree to which treatments using our products are approved for reimbursement by public and private insurers;. • the degree to which physicians adopt our products;. • the extent to which we are successful in educating physicians about PAD and CAD in general and the existence and benefits of our products in particular;. • the strength of our marketing and distribution infrastructure;. • the level of education and awareness among physicians and hospitals concerning our products; and. • our reputation among physicians and hospitals.. Failure of our products to significantly penetrate current or new markets would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Our customers may not be able to achieve adequate reimbursement for using the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS or other products, which could affect the acceptance of our products and cause our business to suffer.. The availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved medical devices and procedures is uncertain. The commercial success of our products is substantially dependent on whether third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement for the use of such products and related services are available. We expect our products to continue to be purchased by hospitals and other providers who will then seek reimbursement from various public and private third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, for the services provided to patients. While third-party payors are currently providing reimbursement for our products, we can give no assurance that these third-party payors will continue to provide adequate reimbursement for use of the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS and our other products to permit hospitals and doctors to consider the products cost-effective for patients requiring treatment, or that current reimbursement levels for our products will continue. In addition, the overall amount of reimbursement available for PAD and CAD treatment could decrease in the future. Failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement could cause our business to suffer.. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for use of our products. In order to position our products for acceptance by third-party payors, we may have to agree to lower prices than we might otherwise charge.. Governmental and private sector payors have instituted initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs using, for example, price regulation or controls and competitive pricing programs. Some third-party payors also require demonstrated superiority, on the basis of randomized clinical trials, or pre-approval of coverage, for new or innovative devices or procedures before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use such devices or procedures. It is uncertain whether our current products or any future products we may develop will be viewed as sufficiently cost-effective to warrant adequate coverage and reimbursement levels.. In addition, in June 2016, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with the U.S. government, acting through the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina (the \"DOJ\") and on behalf of the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (the \"OIG\"), and Travis Thams, and a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. In the event of a breach of the Settlement Agreement or the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be excluded from participation in federal health care programs. If third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products is limited or not available, the acceptance of our products and, consequently, our business will be substantially harmed.. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. There have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payors to control healthcare costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system, some of which have been enacted into law, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the Patient Act. The Patient Act and any additional healthcare proposals and laws that may be enacted in the future could also limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The Patient Act and future healthcare legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. The U.S. Congress has in the past considered legislation to repeal, modify or replace the Patient Act. We cannot predict the outcome of these efforts and, as a result, we cannot predict the effect that any such repeal, modification or replacement will have on our business and results of operations.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by medical device tax provisions in the health care reform legislation.. The imposition of the 2.3% medical device excise tax enacted as part of the Patient Act has adversely affected our financial results and has required, and will continue to require, us to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas or raise additional capital to offset the increased expense. Although the excise tax has been suspended by Congress until the end of 2019, its status is unclear for subsequent years. We have not been able to pass along the cost of the tax to our customers or offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage and do not expect to be able to do so in the future. Ongoing implementation of this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. 19. We have limited data and experience regarding the safety and efficacy of the Peripheral OAS and Coronary OAS. Any long-term data that is generated may not be positive or consistent with our limited short-term data, which would affect market acceptance of these products.. Because our technology is relatively new in the treatment of PAD and CAD, we have performed clinical trials only with limited patient populations. The long-term effects of using the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS in a large number of patients have not been studied and the results of short-term clinical use of the Peripheral OAS or the Coronary OAS do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefits or reveal long-term adverse effects. We are conducting and developing several clinical trials, and there are substantial risks and uncertainties involved in these trials. We must devote substantial resources to our clinical trials, clinical trials often take several years to develop and conduct, there are difficulties involved in locating sites and patients to participate in our clinical trials, and the results of every trial are uncertain until the trial is completed. These uncertainties could adversely impact our financial results, our reputation and the reputation of our products.. Clinical trials conducted with the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS have involved procedures performed by physicians who are very technically proficient. Consequently, both short and long-term results reported in these studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results achieved by physicians, which could negatively impact market acceptance of the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS and materially harm our business.. We face significant competition, must innovate to stay competitive, and may be unable to sell the Peripheral OAS, the Coronary OAS or any other products at profitable levels.. The market for medical devices is highly competitive, dynamic and marked by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovation. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully, and, while certain barriers exist to entry into our market, we cannot assure that new entrants or existing competitors will not be able to develop products that compete directly with our products. We compete against very large and well-known stent and balloon angioplasty device manufacturers, atherectomy catheter manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies, and companies that provide products used by surgeons in peripheral and coronary bypass procedures. We may have difficulty competing effectively with these competitors because of their well-established positions in the marketplace, significant financial and human capital resources, established reputations and worldwide distribution channels.. Our competitors may:. • develop and patent processes or products earlier than we will;. • obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for competing medical device products more rapidly than we will;. • market their products more effectively than we will;. • sell their products at lower prices than we do; or. • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive.. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter potential customers who, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to or prefer the products offered by these competitors. In addition, increased consolidation in the healthcare industry has resulted in companies with greater market power, which increases competition for goods and services.. We experience significant competition on the pricing of our products and expect to continue to experience pressure from our customers to lower our prices.  Our customers may require lower pricing in connection with contract renewals or otherwise for us to continue to sell our products to them. In addition, if our Purchasing Agreement with HealthTrust Purchasing Group, L.P. is terminated, our financial results will be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price reductions and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. Competitive pressures may decrease the demand for our products and could adversely affect our financial results.. Our efforts to develop new products may not be successful or the new products may not provide the revenue we expect.. We plan to add to our product portfolio through both internal development efforts and through acquisitions, distribution agreements, licensing transactions, manufacturing agreements and other strategic partnerships. For example, we recently entered into an agreement with Aerolase Corp. for the co-development of a new vascular laser device for physicians to use in more effectively treating multiple forms of arterial disease and we are developing a new temporary hemodynamic support. 20. pump.. These new products and technologies may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors' innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. We cannot provide certainty as to when or whether any of our products under development will be launched, whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or technologies, or new indications or uses for existing products, may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer.. We have limited commercial manufacturing experience and could experience difficulty in producing the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS or may need to depend on third parties to manufacture the products.. We have limited experience in commercially manufacturing the Peripheral OAS, even less experience in commercially manufacturing the Coronary OAS and no experience manufacturing these products in the quantities that we anticipate will be required if we achieve planned levels of commercial sales. As a result, we may not be able to develop and implement efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS or future products in significant volumes, while meeting the legal, regulatory, quality, price, durability, engineering, design and production standards required to market our products successfully.. The forecasts of demand we use to determine order quantities and lead times for components purchased from outside suppliers may be incorrect. Our failure to obtain required components or subassemblies when needed and at a reasonable cost would adversely affect our business.. In addition, we may in the future need to depend upon third parties to manufacture the Peripheral OAS and Coronary OAS and future products. Any difficulties in locating and hiring third-party manufacturers, or in the ability of third-party manufacturers to supply quantities of our products at the times and in the quantities we need, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend upon third-party suppliers, including single source suppliers to us and our customers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations.. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with certain components of our products and to provide key components or supplies to our customers for use with our products. We rely on single source suppliers for certain components of the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS, including the diamond-grit-coated crown and our ViperSlide Lubricant.  In some cases, we do not have long-term supply agreements with, or guaranteed commitments from, our suppliers, including single source suppliers. We depend on our suppliers to provide us and our customers with materials in a timely manner that meet our and their quality, quantity and cost requirements. These suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand and our customers' demands.  These suppliers may cease producing the components we purchase from them or otherwise decide to cease doing business with us.. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers for any of the components used in our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on our senior management team and highly skilled personnel, and our business could be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain personnel necessary for our success.. We are highly dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to retain senior management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including sales and marketing professionals, scientists, clinical specialists, engineers and other highly skilled personnel and to integrate current and additional personnel in all departments. The loss of members of our senior management, sales and marketing professionals, scientists, clinical and regulatory specialists and engineers could prevent us from achieving our objectives of continuing to grow our company. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees.. 21. We have increased the size of our organization and may need to do so in the future, and we may experience difficulties managing growth. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected.. We have significantly expanded the size of our organization over the past three years, particularly in the number of sales and marketing personnel, and may need to do so in the future. The growth we may experience in the future may provide challenges to our organization, requiring us to also rapidly expand other aspects of our business, including our manufacturing operations. Rapid expansion in personnel may result in less experienced people producing and selling our products, which could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results will suffer.. We intend to sell our products internationally in the future, but we may experience difficulties in obtaining approval to do so or in successfully marketing our products internationally even if approved.. Currently, substantially all of our revenues are in the United States, and in fiscal 2018, commercial sales of certain of our products commenced in Japan, which became the first international market for our products. We intend to further expand our international sales in the future, both in Japan with Medikit and in the rest of the world under our Distribution Agreement with OrbusNeich. There can be no guarantee that we will receive approval to sell our products in any additional countries or that any of our approvals will be maintained, nor can there be any guarantee that any sales would result even if such approval is received. We will be substantially reliant upon Medikit and OrbusNeich for our international sales, and any failure of such distributors to effectively sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our international efforts and harm our financial position. In addition, we will incur substantial expenses in connection with international expansion. Our inability to successfully enter international markets and manage business on a global scale could negatively affect our financial results.. We may require additional financing, and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. We may be dependent on additional financing to execute our business plan. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In the event we need or desire additional financing, we may be unable to obtain it by borrowing money in the credit markets or raising money in the capital markets. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may terminate or delay the development of one or more of our products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our products.. We face a risk of non-compliance with the financial covenants in our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank.. We are party to a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. This agreement requires us to maintain, among other things, either (i) minimum unrestricted cash at Silicon Valley Bank and unused availability on our line of credit of at least $10.0 million or (ii) minimum trailing three-month Adjusted EBITDA of $1.0 million and contains customary events of default, including, among others, the failure to comply with certain covenants or other agreements. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, amounts due under the agreements may be accelerated by Silicon Valley Bank. If we are unable to meet the financial or other covenants under the current loan and security agreement or negotiate future waivers or amendments of such covenants, events of default could occur under the agreement. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the agreement, Silicon Valley Bank has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all outstanding debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the agreement and/or ceasing to provide additional loans under our line of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The restrictive covenants under this agreement could limit our ability to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. The financial and restrictive covenants contained in this agreement could also adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer restrictions. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of Silicon Valley Bank, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction.. We lease our corporate headquarters, which subjects us to ongoing payment obligations and compliance with certain covenants.. 22. On March 30, 2017, we completed the sale of our corporate headquarters. In connection with such sale, we entered into a lease agreement for our corporate headquarters, which has an initial term of fifteen years, with four consecutive renewal options of five years each. Under this lease, we are obligated to pay a base annual rent in the first year of $1,637,500 with annual escalations of 3%. If we are unable to make such rent payments or comply with the other covenants contained in the lease, the landlord could take certain actions against us, up to and including termination of the lease, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial conditions.. Our stock price is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, medical device, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Our common stock traded as low as $20.58 and as high as $34.51 per share during the 12-month period ended June 30, 2018. Factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, but are not limited to:. • announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of vascular disease;. • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who cover our stock;. • failure to meet our own financial estimates;. • accusations that we have violated a law or regulation;. • recalls of our products;. • significant litigation;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • changes in accounting principles;. • actual or anticipated changes in healthcare policy and reimbursement levels;. • developments relating to our competitors and markets; and. • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We may have experienced an ownership change in the past and we may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock, some of which may be outside our control. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards or other pre-change tax attributes to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income or taxes may be subject to limitations.. An interruption in or breach of security of our information or manufacturing systems could cause a loss of business or damage to our reputation.. We rely on information and communication systems in our manufacturing and in the conduct our business.  If there is any failure or interruption of these systems, such an incident could cause failures or disruptions in our customer relationship systems or product manufacturing.  In addition, we could be subject to a cyber incident, such as an intentional attack or an unintentional event that involves a third party gaining unauthorized access to our systems, which could disrupt our operations, corrupt our data, or result in release of our confidential information. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or cyber incidents could cause a loss of business or damage to our reputation and have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and is expected to reduce our effective tax rate for the year ended June 30, 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law. We have assessed the impact the Tax Act with our professional advisors which resulted in the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and valuation allowance. The impact the Tax Act will have on us in future periods is uncertain and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The effects of hurricanes, flooding and other natural disasters may impact our sales, inventories and supply availability, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In August and September 2017, Hurricanes Harvey and Irma made landfall along the Texas Gulf Coast and in the State of Florida, respectively, bringing high winds, unprecedented rain and extreme flooding to those areas. A significant portion of our sales is generated from these areas. Procedure volumes in the Houston area and in Florida decreased during the pendency and immediate aftermath of the hurricanes and flooding, which decreased the number of our products used during this time. Any sustained decrease in procedure volumes from hurricanes and other natural disasters that affect any areas in which our customers are located will result in decreased sales in these areas and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we maintain a 46,000-square foot production facility in Pearland, Texas, which is just outside of Houston in southeast Texas. The storm and its aftermath did not cause damage to our Pearland facility. However, any future loss of operations at the Pearland facility as a result of natural disasters eliminates an alternate production source in the event that our manufacturing capacity at the Minnesota facility is disrupted for any reason.. Any disruptions in our ability to timely manufacture and supply our products to our customers could cause us to experience delays in recognizing revenue or even to lose sales altogether, and any additional hurricanes, flooding or other natural disasters affecting areas in which our products are sold could result in decreased numbers of cases using our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Our ability to market the Peripheral OAS in the United States is limited to use as a therapy in patients with PAD and our ability to market the Coronary OAS in the United States is limited to use as a therapy in patients with severely calcified CAD, and if we want to expand our marketing claims, we will need to file for additional FDA clearances or approvals and conduct further clinical trials, which would be expensive and time consuming and may not be successful.. We received FDA 510(k) clearances in the United States for use of the Peripheral OAS as a therapy in patients with PAD, and we received PMA to use the Coronary OAS as a therapy in patients with severely calcified CAD. These general clearances and approvals restrict our ability to market or advertise the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS beyond these uses and could affect our growth.. If we determine to market our orbital technology in the United States for other uses, we would need to conduct further clinical trials and obtain premarket approval from the FDA. Clinical trials are complex, expensive, time consuming, uncertain and subject to substantial and unanticipated delays. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain FDA approval to use our orbital atherectomy technology for applications other than the treatment of PAD and CAD.. We are or will be subject to an extensive set of post-market controls that apply to us as we commercialize our products, including annual PMA reports, Medical Device Reports on serious adverse events, complaint handling and analysis under the FDA's QSR, export controls, advertising and promotion requirements, and potential post-market studies required by the FDA.. We and our suppliers are also subject to regulation by various state authorities, which may inspect our or our suppliers' facilities and manufacturing processes and enforce state regulations. Failure to comply with applicable state regulations may result in seizures, injunctions or other types of enforcement actions.. Our promotion of the Peripheral OAS and the Coronary OAS is closely controlled by the FDA and enforcement activities could limit our ability to inform potential customers of the features of the products.. 24. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation and product liability claims that could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage.. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material regulatory deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. For example, since commercialization of the Peripheral OAS, we have had instances of recalls, including, in the year ended June 30, 2017 minor recalls involving guidewires and the OAS saline infusion pump recall discussed below. Any recalls of our products or products that we distribute would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation with customers and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Also, if any of our products is defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. We cannot prevent a physician from using any of our products for off-label applications. While we have product liability insurance coverage for our products and intend to maintain such insurance coverage in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected from claims that are brought against us.. The recall of our saline infusion pumps could adversely affect our business and financial results, harm our reputation and result in legal claims against us.. In April 2017, we initiated a voluntary recall of one type of our saline infusion pumps. While we have made design changes to this pump and have launched a next generation pump to address the issues that led to the recall, it is possible that we did not adequately assess the cause and effect of these issues and we may not have adequately modified the pump design in order to prevent these issues from happening in the future. Any additional problems with our pumps could cause delays in the ability of our customers to perform procedures using our devices and prevent us from adding new customers who may not have access to other pumps that can be used in procedures, which could harm our reputation with customers, adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any future pump recall would harm our reputation and divert managerial and sales force attention and financial resources from other aspects of our business and would require us to incur substantial expense.. We are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.. Our products and related manufacturing processes, clinical data, adverse events, recalls and corrections and promotional activities are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular, we are required to comply with the QSR and other regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval. We are also responsible for the quality of components received by our suppliers. Failure to comply with the QSR requirements or other statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to adequately respond to any observations, could result in, among other things:. • warning or other letters from the FDA;. • fines, injunctions and civil penalties;. • product recall or seizure;. • unanticipated expenditures;. • delays in clearing or approving or refusal to clear or approve products;. • withdrawal or suspension of approval or clearance by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;. • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund;. • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production or clinical trials; and. • criminal prosecution.. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales to suffer.. Our operations are also subject to regulatory requirements relating to the environment, waste management and health and safety matters, including measures relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations.. 25. In addition, our relationships with physicians, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws, as further described below.. If our operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we, as well as our employees, may be subject to penalties, including monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers' compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.. In addition, we have agreements with federal, state and local government agencies, such as the Veterans Administration, and third-party healthcare providers that receive government funding to sell our products. We are subject to extensive regulatory compliance obligations in the award, performance and administration of our government contracts, including regulations relating to procurement integrity, pricing protection, export control, government security, employment practices, accuracy of records and the recording of costs. The other parties to these agreements have the right to audit us to determine whether we are in compliance with these agreements. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, repayment of amounts, the assessment of penalties and fines, and/or suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting in the future, any of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting \"kickbacks\" and false and fraudulent claims which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenges to or investigations into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business.. The federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, and similar state laws, prohibit payments that are intended to induce health care professionals or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease, order or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. In addition, some state statutes, most notably laws in Massachusetts and Vermont, impose outright bans on certain gifts to physicians as well as requiring reporting of payments to physicians. Some of these laws, referred to as \"aggregate spend\" or \"gift\" laws, carry substantial fines if they are violated. The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act, requires us to collect and report certain data on payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals.. It is widely anticipated that public reporting under the Sunshine Act and implementing Open Payments regulations will result in increased scrutiny of the financial relationships between industry, physicians and teaching hospitals. These anti-kickback, public reporting and aggregate spend laws affect our sales, marketing, promotional and clinical activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of medical devices. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting and other service arrangements, and clinical trials. If we were to offer or pay inappropriate inducements to purchase our products, we could be subject to a claim under the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws. If we fail to comply with particular reporting requirements, we could be subject to penalties under applicable federal or state laws. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payments to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to government healthcare programs or other payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, by providing improper financial inducements, or through certain other activities.. 26. In providing billing and coding information to customers, we make every effort to ensure that the billing and coding information furnished is accurate and that treating physicians understand that they are responsible for all treatment decisions. Nevertheless, we cannot provide assurance that the government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent or that the government will not examine our role in providing information to our customers and physicians concerning the benefits of therapy with our devices. Likewise, our financial relationships with customers, physicians, or others in a position to influence the purchase or use of our products may be subject to government scrutiny or be alleged or found to violate applicable fraud and abuse laws. False claims laws prescribe civil, criminal and administrative penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Moreover, an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations.. On May 8, 2014, we received a letter from the DOJ stating that it was investigating us to determine whether we had violated the False Claims Act, and on June 28, 2016, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with the United States of America, acting through the DOJ and on behalf of the OIG, and Travis Thams, who filed the qui tam complaint underlying the DOJ's investigation (the \"Civil Action\"), to resolve the investigation by the DOJ and the Civil Action. The existence of the investigation and subsequent settlement could negatively affect our reputation and harm our business and results of operations. In addition, the release we received from the government in the Settlement Agreement related to particular conduct alleged in the complaint underlying the investigation. If the government determines that other conduct alleged in the complaint for which the government did not grant us a release merits additional investigation or if the government pursues any action against us relating to this other alleged conduct, then we may need to expend additional amounts to defend ourselves, our management would undergo the distraction of additional investigation and potential litigation, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Compliance with the terms and conditions of our Corporate Integrity Agreement requires significant resources and management time and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or, under certain circumstances, excluded from government healthcare programs, which would materially adversely affect our business.. On June 28, 2016, we entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG. The Corporate Integrity Agreement requires that we maintain our existing compliance programs and imposes certain expanded compliance-related requirements during the term of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, including establishment of specific procedures and requirements regarding consulting activities, co-marketing activities and other interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare institutions and the sale and marketing of our products; ongoing monitoring, reporting, certification and training obligations; and the engagement of an independent review organization to perform certain auditing and reviews and prepare certain reports regarding our compliance with federal health care programs. Maintaining the broad array of processes, policies and procedures necessary to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement will require a significant portion of management's attention and the application of significant resources. The costs associated with implementation of and compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement could be substantial and may be greater than we currently anticipate. In addition, while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws, all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws and/or all requirements of the Corporate Integrity Agreement. In the event of a breach of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could become liable for payment of certain stipulated penalties or could be excluded from participation in federal health care programs. The costs associated with compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement, or any liability or consequences associated with its breach, could have an adverse effect on our business, revenues, earnings and cash flows.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses, may result in damage to our business reputation and may adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. These disclosure requirements require ongoing due diligence efforts and disclosure obligations. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, our ongoing implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products.. 27. Our anticipated international expansion will subject us to increased legal and regulatory requirements, which could have a material effect on our business.. In February 2018, Medikit, our exclusive distributor in Japan, commenced sales of our Coronary OAS Micro Crown, and, in July 2018, we entered into an exclusive Distribution Agreement with OrbusNeich to sell our Peripheral and Coronary OAS outside of the United States and Japan.  We expect sales by OrbusNeich to commence in Southeast Asia, Europe and the Middle East in the year ending June 30, 2019. Movement into international markets will subject us and our products to different and increased laws and regulations, including foreign medical device regulations; tax laws; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; export laws; and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws. Although we have and will continue to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, distributors and agents, as well as those companies to which we will outsource certain aspects of our business operations, including those based in foreign countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will comply with our internal policies. Medikit and OrbusNeich may appoint sub-distributors of our products and we will have limited ability to control the actions of these sub-distributors, but we may be held responsible by governmental authorities for the actions of these sub-distributors. We will incur additional compliance costs associated with global operations, and any alleged or actual violations of these laws and regulations could subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil fines, sanctions and other liabilities, and prohibitions on business conduct, and could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition.. New regulatory requirements will impose additional burdens on us, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to satisfy all applicable new requirements in a timely fashion.. New regulations impacting our products are periodically adopted. These regulations may require us to change our existing product designs in order to continue marketing our products, which could result in increased expenditures and in risks that we may be unable to successfully change our designs to satisfy the new requirements. For example, IEC 60601-1-2 (4th Edition) was published in July 2014 and updates the performance requirements with respect to electromagnetic interference for medical devices. In the United States, the 4th Edition requirements go into effect on December 31, 2018 for new devices and devices that have undergone substantial changes. We have taken steps to ensure that our products sold in the United States will be compliant with the 4th Edition requirements, but we could experience technical and regulatory delays. If our products do not meet the 4th Edition standards, we may be delayed in launching new products or selling existing products that require material changes, including, for example, as a result of a change of supplier or quality issues. Any delays in selling our products resulting from non-compliance with 4th Edition and other new regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The impact of restrictive trade policies in the United States and the potential corresponding actions by other countries could adversely affect our financial performance.. The U.S. federal government has recently implemented tariffs on certain products imported into the United States from China, and the Chinese government has responded with retaliatory tariffs on certain products, including medical devices, exported from the United States to China. We cannot predict whether the United States will implement additional trade restrictions with respect to China or other countries and how such countries would respond to such trade restrictions. If these tariffs continue or are expanded, they would make it more difficult to sell our products in China or other markets outside of the United States, if we seek to expand into the Chinese or other markets in the future, and they may increase the costs of procuring component parts for our products from China or other countries. Restrictive trade policies may also harm the United States and global economies generally, which would adversely affect our business in a variety of ways, including reducing the market for our products, causing a downturn in the trading price of our common stock, and restricting access to credit if we seek it for future growth.. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete.. Our success and ability to compete depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights and trademarks, as well as trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property. Our issued patents and related intellectual property may not be adequate to protect us or permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Also, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. Further, if any patents we obtain or license are deemed invalid and unenforceable, or have their scope narrowed, it could impact our ability to commercialize or license our technology and achieve competitive advantages.. 28. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, if at all.. We may, in the future, need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights, trade secrets or trademarks is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation.. Despite our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful in doing so or the steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to litigate, enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. Additionally, third parties may be able to design around our patents.. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. In this regard, we seek to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property by having a policy that our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors execute non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement. We cannot provide any assurance that employees and third parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these agreements, or that we will be effective in securing necessary assignments from these third parties.. Claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others could prohibit us from commercializing products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or require us to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief.. The medical technology industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. The likelihood that patent infringement or misappropriation claims may be brought against us increases as we achieve more visibility in the marketplace and introduce products to market. We are aware of numerous patents issued to third parties that relate to the manufacture and use of medical devices for the treatment of vascular disease. The owners of each of these patents could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our products infringes one or more claims of their patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that one or more aspects of our technology may inadvertently infringe. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent-holding company or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against whom our patents may provide little or no deterrence.. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management's attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld in litigation as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from commercializing any infringing products unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign any infringing products to avoid infringement."
