[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We are dependent on Ensign and other healthcare operators to make payments to us under leases, and an event that materially and adversely affects their business, financial position or results of operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, Ensign represents $57.7 million or 44%, of our rental revenues, on an annualized run-rate basis. Additionally, because each master lease is a triple-net lease, we depend on our tenants to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with these leased properties and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their business. There can be no assurance that Ensign or our other tenants will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their payment or indemnification obligations under their leases with us. In addition, any failure by a tenant to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its business reputation and its ability to attract and retain residents in our properties.  The inability or unwillingness of Ensign to meet its rent obligations under its leases could materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our. 14. Table of Contents. stockholders as required to maintain our status as a REIT. The inability of Ensign to satisfy its other obligations under its leases, such as the payment of insurance, taxes and utilities, could materially and adversely affect the condition of the leased properties as well as Ensign's business, financial position and results of operations. For these reasons, if Ensign were to experience a material and adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations, our business, financial position or results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected.. Due to our dependence on rental payments from Ensign for a substantial portion of our revenues, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under, or to terminate, Ensign's leases. Failure by Ensign to comply with the terms of its leases or to comply with federal and state healthcare laws and regulations to which the leased properties are subject could require us to find another lessee for such leased property and there could be a decrease in or cessation of rental payments. In such event, we may be unable to locate a suitable lessee at similar rental rates or at all, which would have the effect of reducing our rental revenues.. The impact of healthcare reform legislation on us and our tenants cannot accurately be predicted.. Ensign and other healthcare operators to which we lease properties are dependent on the healthcare industry and may be susceptible to the risks associated with healthcare reform.  Because all of our properties are used as healthcare properties, we are impacted by the risks associated with healthcare reform.  Legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures each year that would effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. We cannot accurately predict whether any future legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our tenants and, thus, our business.. In March 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Affordable Care Act\") into law. The passage of the Affordable Care Act resulted in comprehensive reform legislation that expanded healthcare coverage to millions of uninsured people and provided for significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system over several years.  In May 2017, members of the House of Representatives approved legislation to repeal portions of the Affordable Care Act, which legislation was submitted to the Senate for approval. On July 25, 2017, the Senate rejected a complete repeal; however, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and signed into law, one part of which repealed the \"individual mandate\" introduced by the Affordable Care Act starting in 2019. Furthermore, on October 12, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order, the purpose of which was to, among other things, (i) cut healthcare cost-sharing reduction subsidies, (ii) allow more small businesses to join together to purchase insurance coverage, (iii) extend short-term coverage policies, and (iv) expand employers' ability to provide workers cash to buy coverage elsewhere. At this time, it is uncertain whether any additional healthcare reform legislation will ultimately become law and we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on our business. If our tenants' patients do not have insurance, it could adversely impact the tenants' ability to pay rent and operate a practice.. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, which also may impact our business. For instance, on April 1, 2014, the President signed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, which, among other things, requires the CMS to measure, track, and publish readmission rates of SNFs by 2017 and implement a value-based purchasing program for SNFs (the \"SNF VBP Program\") by October 1, 2018. The SNF VBP Program will increase Medicare reimbursement rates for SNFs that achieve certain levels of quality performance measures to be developed by CMS, relative to other facilities. The value-based payments authorized by the SNF VBP Program will be funded by reducing Medicare payment for all SNFs by 2% and redistributing up to 70% of those funds to high-performing SNFs.  However, there is no assurance that payments made by CMS as a result of the SNF VBP Program will be sufficient to cover a facility's costs.  If Medicare reimbursement provided to our healthcare tenants is reduced under the SNF VBP Program, that reduction may have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us.. Additionally, on November 16, 2015, CMS issued the final rule for a new mandatory Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (\"CJR\") model focusing on coordinated, patient-centered care. Under this model, the hospital in which the hip or knee replacement takes place is accountable for the costs and quality of care from the time of the surgery through 90 days after, or an \"episode\" of care. This model initially covered 67 geographic areas throughout the country and most hospitals in those regions are required to participate. Following the implementation of the CJR program, the Medicare revenues of our SNF-operating tenants related to lower extremity joint replacement hospital discharges could be increased or decreased in those geographic areas identified by CMS for mandatory participation in the bundled payment program. If Medicare reimbursement provided to our healthcare tenants is reduced under the CJR model, that reduction may have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us.. 15. Table of Contents. However, the fate of the SNF VBP Program and CJR model are uncertain since the Affordable Care Act may be repealed, modified or replaced.. Tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.. Ensign and other healthcare operators to which we lease properties are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to governmental healthcare reimbursement programs. See \"Business - Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement - Overview.\" As a result, Ensign and other tenants are subject to the following risks, among others:. • statutory and regulatory changes;. • retroactive rate adjustments;. • recovery of program overpayments or set-offs;. • administrative rulings;. • policy interpretations;. • payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers;. • government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and. • interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits.. Healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be a significant focus for federal and state authorities in their efforts to control costs. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. The failure of Ensign or any of our operators and other tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially and adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us.. Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the False Claims Act.. The False Claims Act provides that any person who \"knowingly presents, or causes to be presented\" a \"false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval\" to the U.S. government, or its agents and contractors, is liable for a civil penalty ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 per claim, plus three times the amount of damages sustained by the government.  Under the False Claims Act's so-called \"reverse false claims,\" liability also could arise for \"using\" a false record or statement to \"conceal,\" \"avoid\" or \"decrease\" an \"obligation\" (which can include the retention of an overpayment) \"to pay or transmit money or property to the Government.\"  The False Claims Act also empowers and provides incentives to private citizens (commonly referred to as qui tam relator or whistleblower) to file suit on the government's behalf.  The qui tam relator's share of the recovery can be between 15% and 25% in cases in which the government intervenes, and 25% to 30% in cases in which the government does not intervene. Notably, the Affordable Care Act amended certain jurisdictional bars to the False Claims Act, effectively narrowing the \"public disclosure bar\" (which generally requires that a whistleblower suit not be based on publicly disclosed information) and expanding the \"original source\" exception (which generally permits a whistleblower suit based on publicly disclosed information if the whistleblower is the original source of that publicly disclosed information), thus potentially broadening the field of potential whistleblowers.. Medicare requires that extensive financial information be reported on a periodic basis and in a specific format or content.  These requirements are numerous, technical and complex and may not be fully understood or implemented by billing or reporting personnel.  With respect to certain types of required information, the False Claims Act may be violated by mere negligence or recklessness in the submission of information to the government even without any intent to defraud.  New billing systems, new medical procedures and procedures for which there is not clear guidance may all result in liability.. The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.. Tenants that fail to structure their facility contractual relationships in light of anti-kickback statutes and self-referral laws expose themselves to significant risk that could result in their inability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition to reimbursement, operators of healthcare facilities must exercise extreme care in structuring their contractual relationships with vendors, physicians and other healthcare providers who provide goods and services to healthcare facilities, in particular, the anti-kickback statutes and self-referral laws, noted below.. Federal \"Fraud and Abuse\" Laws and Regulations. The Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse amendments to the Social Security Act (the \"Anti-Kickback Law\") make it a felony, subject to certain exceptions, to engage in illegal remuneration arrangements with vendors, physicians and other health care providers for the referral of Medicare beneficiaries or Medicaid recipients.  When a violation occurs, the government may proceed criminally or civilly.  If the government proceeds criminally, a violation is a felony and may result in imprisonment for up to five years, fines of up to $25,000 and mandatory exclusion from participation in all federal health care programs.  If the government proceeds civilly, it may impose a civil monetary penalty of $50,000 per violation and an assessment of not more than three times the total amount of remuneration involved, and it may exclude the parties from participation in all federal health care programs.  Many states have enacted similar laws to, and in some cases broader than the Anti-Kickback Law.  Exclusion from these programs would have a material adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of Ensign or any of our other healthcare operators.. The scope of prohibited payments in the Anti-Kickback Law is broad.  The U. S. Department of Health and Human Services has published regulations which describe certain \"safe harbor\" arrangements that will not be deemed to constitute violations of the Anti-Kickback Law. An arrangement that fits squarely into a safe harbor is immune from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute.  The safe harbors described in the regulations are narrow and do not cover a wide range of economic relationships which many SNFs, physicians and other health care providers consider to be legitimate business arrangements not prohibited by the statute.  Because the regulations describe safe harbors and do not purport to describe comprehensively all lawful or unlawful economic arrangements or other relationships between health care providers and referral sources, health care providers having these arrangements or relationships may be required to alter them in order to ensure compliance with the Anti-Kickback Law.. Restrictions on Referrals.  The federal physician self-referral law and its implementing regulations (commonly referred to as the \"Stark Law\") prohibits providers of \"designated health services\" from billing Medicare or Medicaid if the patient is referred by a physician (or his/her immediate family member) with a financial relationship with the entity, unless an exception applies.  \"Designated health services\" include clinical laboratory services; physical therapy services; occupational therapy services; radiology services, including magnetic resonance imaging, computerized axial tomography scans, and ultrasound services; radiation therapy services and supplies; durable medical equipment and services; parenteral and enteral nutrients, equipment and supplies; prosthetics, orthotics, and prosthetic devices and supplies; home health services; outpatient prescription drugs; and inpatient and outpatient hospital services.  The Stark Law also prohibits the furnishing entity from submitting a claim for reimbursement or otherwise billing Medicare or any other person or entity for improperly referred designated health services.. An entity that submits a claim for reimbursement in violation of the Stark Law must refund any amounts collected and may be: (1) subject to a civil penalty of up to $15,000 for each self-referred service; and (2) excluded from participation in federal health care programs.  In addition, a physician or entity that has participated in a \"scheme\" to circumvent the operation of the Stark Law is subject to a civil penalty of up to $100,000 and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs.. CMS has established a voluntary self-disclosure program under which health care facilities and other entities may report Stark violations and seek a reduction in potential refund obligations.  However, the program is relatively new and therefore it is difficult to determine at this time whether it will provide significant monetary relief to health care facilities that discover inadvertent Stark Law violations.. The costs of an operator of a health care property for any non-compliance with the Anti-Kickback Law and Stark Laws can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.. Tenants that fail to adhere to HIPAA and the HITECH Act's privacy and security requirements expose themselves to significant risk that could result in their inability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.. Potentially significant legal exposure exists for healthcare operators under state and federal laws which govern the use and disclosure of confidential patient health information and patients' rights to access and amend their own health information.  The Administrative Simplification Requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") established national standards to facilitate the electronic exchange of Protected Health Information (\"PHI\") and to maintain the privacy and security of the PHI.  These standards have a major effect on healthcare providers which transmit PHI in electronic form in connection with HIPAA standard transactions (e.g., health care claims).  In particular, HIPAA established standards. 17. Table of Contents. governing: (1) electronic transactions and code sets; (2) privacy; (3) security; and (4) national identifiers.  Failure of our operators to comply could result in criminal and civil penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us.. Title XIII of the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the \"HITECH Act\"), provides for an investment of almost $20 billion in public monies for the development of a nationwide health information technology (\"HIT\") infrastructure.  The HIT infrastructure is intended to improve health care quality, reduce costs and facilitate access to certain information.  The HITECH Act also expands the scope and application of the administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, (i) imposing a written notice obligation upon covered entities for security breaches involving \"unsecured\" PHI, (ii) expanding the scope of a provider's  electronic health record disclosure tracking obligations, (iii) substantially limiting the ability of health care providers to sell PHI without patient authorization, (iv) increasing penalties for violations, and (v) providing for enforcement of violations by state attorneys general.  While the effects of the HITECH Act cannot be predicted at this time, the obligations imposed thereunder could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our operators, which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us.. Tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate our healthcare facilities or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.. The healthcare operators to which we lease properties are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards. Our tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss or restriction of license, loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, or closure of the facility. For example, operations at our properties may require a license, registration, certificate of need, provider agreement or certification. Failure of any tenant to obtain, or the loss or restrictions on any required license, registration, certificate of need, provider agreement or certification would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such tenant. Additionally, failure of our tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect facilities owned by us, result in adverse publicity and loss of reputation, and therefore could materially and adversely affect us. See \"Business - Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement - Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need.\". Our tenants depend on reimbursement from government and other third-party payors; reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced, which could cause our tenants' revenues to decline and could affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. The federal government and a number of states are currently managing budget deficits, which may put pressure on Congress and the states to decrease reimbursement rates for our tenants, with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in Medicaid due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement to our tenants under both the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Potential reductions in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement to our tenants could reduce the revenues of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us.. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants could delay or prevent our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants.. We receive substantially all of our income as rent payments under leases of our properties. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants' businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our tenants have in the past, and may in the future, fail to make rent payments when due or, our tenants may declare bankruptcy.. Any tenant failures to make rent payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant's lease and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders (which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or service our indebtedness). This risk is magnified in situations where we lease multiple properties to a single tenant, such as Ensign, as a multiple property tenant failure could reduce or eliminate rental revenue from multiple properties.. If a tenant is unable to comply with the terms of the leases, we may be forced to establish reserves for unpaid amounts due to us from the tenant, move to a cash basis method of accounting for recognizing rental revenues from the tenant or otherwise modify the lease with such tenant in ways that are unfavorable to us. For example, during the year ended December. 18. Table of Contents. 31, 2017, we determined to recognize Pristine rental revenues on a cash basis, established a $10.4 million reserve related to Pristine's obligation to us and amended our lease agreement with Pristine.  See Note 3, \"Real Estate Investments, Net\" for further information. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, hire third-party managers to operate the property or sell the property. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease a property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, find another qualified tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us. It may be more difficult to find a replacement tenant for a healthcare property than it would be to find a replacement tenant for a general commercial property due to the specialized nature of the business. Even if we are able to find a suitable replacement tenant for a property, transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations, resulting in delays in receiving reimbursement, or a potential loss of a facility's reimbursement for a period of time, which may affect our ability to successfully transition a property.. If any lease expires or is terminated, we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that property until it is re-leased or sold. If we experience a significant number of un-leased properties, our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. If one or more of our tenants files for bankruptcy relief, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the leases and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant's bankruptcy or other default may divert management's attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs.. The geographic concentration of some of our facilities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas.. Our properties are located in 23 different states, with concentrations in Texas, California and Ohio. The properties in these three states accounted for approximately 22%, 16% and 8%, respectively, of the total beds and units in our portfolio, as of December 31, 2017 and approximately 20%, 18% and 15%, respectively, of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2017. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules, regulations and reimbursement rates or criteria, changes in demographics, state funding, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand and/or reimbursement for skilled nursing services in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our tenants' revenue, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. Our facilities located in Texas are especially susceptible to natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and flooding, and our facilities located in California are particularly susceptible to natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes and mudslides. These acts of nature may cause disruption to our tenants, their employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our tenants' patients and businesses. In order to provide care for their patients, our tenants are dependent on consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, utilities and other goods to our facilities, and the availability of employees to provide services at the facilities. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities is interrupted in any material respect due to a natural disaster or other reasons, it would have a significant impact on our facilities and our tenants' businesses at those facilities. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster may require that our tenants evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for the patients at such facilities. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our tenants' patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our tenants' business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our tenants' businesses to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict.. We pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek other strategic opportunities in the ordinary course of our business, which may result in the use of a significant amount of management resources or significant costs, and we may not fully realize the potential benefits of such transactions.. We pursue acquisitions of additional properties and seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities in the ordinary course of our business. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is. 19. Table of Contents. uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such a transaction, which could negatively impact our operations. We may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions or other strategic opportunities regardless of whether the transaction is completed and in combining our operations if such a transaction is completed. In addition, there is no assurance that we will fully realize the potential benefits of any past or future acquisition or strategic transaction.. Additionally, we have preferred equity interests in a limited number of joint ventures. Our use of joint ventures may be subject to risks that may not be present with other ownership methods. Our joint ventures may involve property development, which presents additional risks that could render a development project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, may prevent completion of development activities once undertaken.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders and other investors, some of whom are significantly larger and have greater resources and lower costs of capital. Increased competition will make it more challenging to identify and successfully capitalize on acquisition opportunities that meet our investment objectives. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of suitable properties at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the fact that we must distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our leased properties or subsequently acquired properties in order to finance acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing is not available on acceptable terms, further acquisitions might be limited or curtailed. Transactions involving properties we might seek to acquire entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including that the investment's performance will fail to meet expectations or that the tenant, operator or manager will underperform.. Increased competition has resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The occupancy levels at, and results of operations from, our facilities are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. In addition, our tenants face an increasingly competitive labor market for skilled management personnel and nurses. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants to attract and retain qualified personnel could reduce the revenues of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us.. Our tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. We cannot be certain that our tenants will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels, or manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants. They may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, either of which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets, and/or increasing our collection and dispute costs.. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties, which could result in periods in which we are unable to receive rent for such properties.. Our tenants that operate SNFs and other healthcare facilities must be licensed under applicable state law and, depending upon the type of facility, certified or approved as providers under the Medicare and/or Medicaid programs. Prior to the transfer of the operations of such healthcare properties to successor operators, the new operator generally must become licensed under state law and, in certain states, receive change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws (which provide for a certification that the state has made a determination that a need exists for the beds located on the property) and, if applicable, file for a Medicare and Medicaid change of ownership (commonly referred to as a CHOW). If an existing lease is terminated or expires and a new tenant is found, then any delays in the new tenant receiving regulatory approvals from the. 20. Table of Contents. applicable federal, state or local government agencies, or the inability to receive such approvals, may prolong the period during which we are unable to collect the applicable rent.. If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we may  have difficulty identifying replacements and we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain that our healthcare properties are suitable for other operators and tenants.. If we or our tenants terminate or do not renew the leases for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure and security, are costly and at times tenant-specific. A new or replacement tenant to operate one or more of our healthcare facilities may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant's particular operations. If a current tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to release the space.  In addition, approvals of local authorities for such modifications and/or renovations may be necessary, resulting in delays in transitioning a facility to a new tenant.  These expenditures or renovations and delays could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all.. We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. A downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell such properties for acceptable prices or on other acceptable terms. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.. An increase in market interest rates could increase our interest costs on existing and future debt and could adversely affect our stock price.. Certain of our existing debt obligations are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices, and in the future we may incur additional indebtedness in connection with the entry into new credit facilities or the financing of any acquisition or development activity. If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt and our variable rate debt obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan (the \"Credit Facility\"). This increased cost could make the financing of any acquisition more costly, as well as lower our current period earnings. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the access third parties have to credit, thereby decreasing the amount they are willing to pay for our assets and consequently limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Further, the dividend yield on our common stock, as a percentage of the price of such common stock, will influence the price of such common stock. Thus, an increase in market interest rates may lead prospective purchasers of our common stock to expect a higher dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives.. Our success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, particularly Gregory K. Stapley and other key employees. If we lose the services of Mr. Stapley or any of our other key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives.. We or our tenants may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense.. Our lease agreements with operators (including the Ensign Master Leases) require that the tenant maintain comprehensive liability and hazard insurance, and we maintain customary insurance for the ILFs that we own and operate. However, there are certain types of losses (including, but not limited to, losses arising from environmental conditions or of a. 21. Table of Contents. catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods) that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of a loss. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace the property after such property has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore the economic position with respect to such property.. If one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from the property. If the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged.. In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenue for our tenants or us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate them or us for such loss of revenue. If one of our tenants experiences such a loss, it may be unable to satisfy its payment obligations to us under its lease with us.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with real estate properties owned by us may materially impair the value of those investments.. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Neither we nor our tenants carry environmental insurance on our properties. Although we generally require our tenants, as operators of our healthcare properties, to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the financial ability of the tenant to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. Although we will be generally indemnified by our tenants for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us.. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions.. Our ability to engage in significant strategic transactions and equity issuances may be limited or restricted in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the Spin-Off.. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to Ensign under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our stock or Ensign's stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-Off. The process for determining whether an acquisition or issuance triggering these provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that we entered into with Ensign, we also are generally responsible for any taxes imposed on Ensign that arise from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, within the meaning of Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or any covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement, the materials submitted to the IRS in connection with the request for the IRS Ruling or the representation letter provided to counsel in connection with the tax opinion.. The ownership by our chief executive officer, Gregory K. Stapley, of shares of Ensign common stock may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest.. Because of his former position with Ensign, our chief executive officer, Gregory K. Stapley, owns shares of Ensign common stock. Mr. Stapley also owns shares of our common stock. His individual holdings of shares of our common stock and Ensign common stock may be significant compared to his respective total assets. These equity interests may create, or appear to. 22. Table of Contents. create, conflicts of interest when he is faced with decisions that may not benefit or affect CareTrust REIT and Ensign in the same manner.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and maintaining personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. In addition, due to the fast pace and unpredictability of cyber threats, long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks become obsolete quickly. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, works, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering (including through social engineering such as phishing attacks), coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. In some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. In addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures.  Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.. At each reporting period, we evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we are required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators. We receive revenue primarily by leasing our assets under leases that are long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Almost all of our leases contain escalators contingent on changes in the Consumer Price Index, subject to maximum fixed percentages. If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our revenues may not increase.. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT. If we do not qualify to be taxed as a REIT, or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or service our indebtedness.. We currently operate, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. We received an opinion of our counsel with respect to our qualification as a REIT in connection with the Spin-Off. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of advisors are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of our counsel represents only the view of our counsel based on its review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. The opinion is expressed as of the date issued. Our counsel has no obligation to advise us or the holders of any of our securities of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of our counsel and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by. 23. Table of Contents. our counsel. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals.. If we were to fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify to be taxed as a REIT may depend in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the \"Treasury\"). Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws, including any tax reform called for by the new presidential administration, might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to our investors and us of such qualification.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations, generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. Most of the changes applicable to individuals are temporary and apply only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes numerous large and small changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our stockholders and may indirectly affect us.. While the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may lessen the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT rather than as a C corporation and have other unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the IRS will be able to issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. Prospective stockholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors with respect to the status of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on investment in our stock.. We could fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT if income we receive from our tenants is not treated as qualifying income.. Under applicable provisions of the Code, we will not be treated as a REIT unless we satisfy various requirements, including requirements relating to the sources of our gross income. Rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are instead treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If the leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will likely fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT.. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of these requirements if we or a beneficial or constructive owner of 10% or more of our stock beneficially or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or 10% or more of the total value of all classes of stock. CareTrust REIT's charter provides for restrictions on ownership and. 24. Table of Contents. transfer of CareTrust REIT's shares of stock, including restrictions on such ownership or transfer that would cause the rents received or accrued by us from our tenants to be treated as non-qualifying rent for purposes of the REIT gross income requirements. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such restrictions will be effective in ensuring that rents received or accrued by us from our tenants will not be treated as qualifying rent for purposes of REIT qualification requirements.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to income from \"qualified dividends\" payable by U.S. corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, under the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, noncorporate taxpayers may deduct up to 20% of certain qualified business income, including \"qualified REIT dividends\" (generally, dividends received by a REIT shareholder that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), subject to certain limitations, resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such income.  Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends, together with the recently reduced corporate tax rate (currently, 21%), could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our stock. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our stock.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, in order for us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT (assuming that certain other requirements are also satisfied) so that U.S. federal corporate income tax does not apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement and qualify for taxation as a REIT but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Code.. Our funds from operations are generated primarily by rents paid under leases with our tenants, including Ensign. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid being subject to corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. For example, we may hold some of our assets or conduct certain of our activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a \"TRS\") or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to U.S. federal, state, and local corporate-level income taxes as regular C corporations. In addition, we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive acquisition opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code). The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and. 25. Table of Contents. securities issued by a TRS) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. Further, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by \"nonqualified publicly offered REIT debt instruments\" (as defined in the Code). If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify to be taxed as a REIT we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our assets and liabilities. Income from certain hedging transactions that we may enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute \"gross income\" for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests that apply to REITs, provided that certain identification requirements are met.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, income from new transactions entered into to hedge the income or loss from prior hedging transactions, where the indebtedness or property which was the subject of the prior hedging transaction was extinguished or disposed of, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests.  To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions or fail to properly identify such transaction as a hedge, the income is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may be required to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because the TRS may be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in the TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except that such losses could theoretically be carried back or forward against past or future taxable income in the TRS.. Even if we qualify to be taxed as a REIT, we could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gains in our assets held before electing to be treated as a REIT.. We own appreciated assets that were held by a C corporation and were acquired by us in a transaction in which the adjusted tax basis of the assets in our hands was determined by reference to the adjusted basis of the assets in the hands of the C corporation. If we dispose of any such appreciated assets during the five-year period following our qualification as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rates on any gain from such assets to the extent of the excess of the fair market value of the assets on the date that we became a REIT over the adjusted tax basis of such assets on such date, which are referred to as built-in gains. We would be subject to this tax liability even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and our distribution requirement. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. We may choose not to sell in a taxable transaction appreciated assets we might otherwise sell during the five-year period in which the built-in gain tax applies in order to avoid the built-in gain tax. However, there can be no assurances that such a taxable transaction will not occur. If we sell such assets in a taxable transaction, the amount of corporate tax that we will pay will vary depending on the actual amount of net built-in gain or loss present in those assets as of the time we became a REIT. The amount of tax could be significant.. Uncertainties relating to CareTrust REIT's estimate of its \"earnings and profits\" attributable to C-corporation taxable years may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow.. In order to qualify as a REIT, a REIT cannot have at the end of any REIT taxable year any undistributed earnings and profits (\"E&P\") that are attributable to a C-corporation taxable year. A REIT that has non-REIT accumulated earnings and profits has until the close of its first full tax year as a REIT to distribute such earnings and profits. Failure to meet this requirement would result in CareTrust REIT's disqualification as a REIT. In connection with the Company's intention to qualify as a real estate investment trust, on October 17, 2014, the Company's board of directors declared the Special Dividend. 26. Table of Contents. to distribute the amount of accumulated E&P allocated to the Company as a result of the Spin-Off. The amount of the Special Dividend was $132.0 million, or approximately $5.88 per common share. It was paid on December 10, 2014, to stockholders of record as of October 31, 2014, in a combination of both cash and stock. The cash portion totaled $33.0 million and the stock portion totaled $99.0 million. The Company issued 8,974,249 shares of common stock in connection with the stock portion of the Special Dividend.. The determination of non-REIT earnings and profits is complicated and depends upon facts with respect to which CareTrust REIT may have had less than complete information or the application of the law governing earnings and profits, which is subject to differing interpretations, or both. Consequently, there are substantial uncertainties relating to the estimate of CareTrust REIT's non-REIT earnings and profits, and we cannot be assured that the earnings and profits distribution requirement has been met. These uncertainties include the possibility that the IRS could upon audit, as discussed above, increase the taxable income of CareTrust REIT, which would increase the non-REIT earnings and profits of CareTrust REIT. There can be no assurances that we have satisfied the requirement.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. We have substantial indebtedness and we have the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness.. We have approximately $565.0 million of indebtedness, consisting of $300.0 million representing our 5.25% Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"Notes\"), a $100.0 million Term Loan (as defined below) and $165.0 million outstanding on our Revolving Facility, all as of December 31, 2017. We also had $235.0 million available capacity to borrow under the Revolving Facility. Our high level of indebtedness may have the following important consequences to us. For example, it could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our cash flow available to fund working capital, dividends, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • require us to maintain certain debt coverage and other financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including the Notes and borrowings under the Credit Facility;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;. • expose us to increases in interest rates for our variable rate debt;. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all to expand our business or ease liquidity constraints;. • limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity on the same or more favorable terms or at all;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness;. • require us to dispose of one or more of our properties at disadvantageous prices in order to service our indebtedness or to raise funds to pay such indebtedness at maturity; and. • result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the Notes or our other debt or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing the Notes or the Credit Facility, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt.. In addition, the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt. If we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could intensify.. 27. Table of Contents. We may be unable to service our indebtedness.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness depends on and is subject to our future financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may be unavailable to us under the Credit Facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances and/or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes restrict, and market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some or all of these actions. Any restructuring or refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur additional debt, including secured debt, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.. We rely on our subsidiaries for our operating funds.. We conduct our operations through subsidiaries and depend on our subsidiaries for the funds necessary to operate and repay our debt obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to transfer funds to us. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could be restricted by the terms of subsequent financings and the indenture governing the Notes.. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our activities and could adversely affect our business.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to engage in various transactions including, as applicable:. •incurring or guaranteeing additional secured and unsecured debt;. •creating liens on our assets;. •paying dividends or making other distributions on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock;. •making investments or other restricted payments;. •entering into transactions with affiliates;. •issuing stock of or interests in subsidiaries;. •engaging in non-healthcare related business activities;. •creating restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to us;. •selling assets;. •effecting a consolidation or merger or selling all or substantially all of our assets;. •making acquisitions; and. •amending certain material agreements, including material leases and debt agreements.. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. The Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with financial maintenance covenants to be tested quarterly, consisting of a maximum debt to asset value ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a minimum tangible net worth, a maximum cash distributions to operating income ratio, a maximum secured debt to asset value ratio and a maximum secured recourse debt to asset value ratio.  We are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of our unsecured indebtedness under the indenture. Our ability to meet these. 28. Table of Contents. requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet these requirements. We may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from the lenders or amend the covenants.. A downgrade of our credit rating could impair our ability to obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the trading price of our common stock.. If any rating agency downgrades our credit rating, or places our rating under watch or review for possible downgrade, then it may be more difficult or expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Factors that may affect our credit rating include, among other things, our financial performance, our success in raising sufficient equity capital, adverse changes in our debt and fixed charge coverage ratios, our capital structure and level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. We cannot assure that these credit agencies will not downgrade our credit rating in the future.. Risks Related To Our Common Stock. Our charter restricts the ownership and transfer of our outstanding stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or change of control of our company.. In order for us to qualify to be taxed as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first taxable year as a REIT. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year (other than our first taxable year as a REIT). Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter also provides that, unless exempted by the board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our stock. The constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause shares of stock owned directly or constructively by a group of related individuals or entities to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for shares of our stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. The acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% in value of our outstanding stock, and thus violate our charter's ownership limit. Our charter also prohibits any person from owning shares of our stock that would result in our being \"closely held\" under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify to be taxed as a REIT. In addition, our charter provides that (i) no person shall beneficially or constructively own shares of stock to the extent such beneficial or constructive ownership of stock would result in us failing to qualify as a \"domestically controlled qualified investment entity\" within the meaning of Section 897(h) of the Code, and (ii) no person shall beneficially or constructively own shares of stock to the extent such beneficial or constructive ownership would cause us to own, beneficially or constructively, more than a 9.9% interest (as set forth in Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code) in a tenant of our real property. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the transfer being automatically void.. Maryland law and provisions in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent takeover attempts by third parties and therefore inhibit our stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock.. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. As currently in effect, our charter and bylaws, among other things, (1) contain transfer and ownership restrictions on the percentage by number and value of outstanding shares of our stock that may be owned or acquired by any stockholder; (2) provide that stockholders are not allowed to act by non-unanimous written consent; (3) permit the board of directors, without further action of the stockholders, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; (4) permit the board of directors to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares; (5) permit only the board of directors to amend the bylaws; (6) establish certain advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals, and provide procedures for the nomination of candidates for our board of directors; (7) provide that special meetings of stockholders may only be called by the Company or upon written request of stockholders entitled to be at the meeting; (8) provide that a director may only be removed by stockholders for cause and upon the vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock; (9) provide for supermajority approval requirements for amending or repealing certain provisions in our charter; and (10) provide for a classified board of directors of three separate. 29. Table of Contents. classes with staggered terms. In addition, specific anti-takeover provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") could make it more difficult for a third party to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. •a shift in our investor base;. •our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other comparable companies;. •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. •our ability to obtain financing as needed, including potential future equity or debt issuances;. •changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •announcements by us or our competitors of significant investments, acquisitions or dispositions;. •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. •changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. •the operating performance and stock price of other comparable companies;. •overall market fluctuations; and. •general economic conditions and other external factors.. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. 30. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock.. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which require significant resources and management oversight. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial data on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial data, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us by, for example, leading to a decline in the market price for our common stock and impairing our ability to raise capital.. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm is required pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. If we cannot maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm cannot provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, the market price of our common stock could decline.. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. We expect to make quarterly dividend payments in cash with the annual dividend amount no less than 90% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. Our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this annual report. Dividends are authorized by our board of directors and declared by us based upon a number of factors, including actual results of operations, restrictions under Maryland law or applicable debt covenants, our financial condition, our taxable income, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, our operating expenses and other factors our directors deem relevant. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash dividends or year-to-year increases in cash dividends in the future.. Furthermore, while we are required to pay dividends in order to maintain our REIT status (as described above under \"Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT - REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan\"), we may elect not to maintain our REIT status, in which case we would no longer be required to pay such dividends. Moreover, even if we do elect to maintain our REIT status, after completing various procedural steps, we may elect to comply with the applicable distribution requirements by distributing, under certain circumstances, a portion of the required amount in the form of shares of our common stock in lieu of cash. If we elect not to maintain our REIT status or to satisfy any required distributions in shares of common stock in lieu of cash, such action could negatively affect our business and financial condition as well as the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that we will pay any dividends on shares of our common stock in the future.. Your ownership percentage in us may be diluted in the future.. From time to time in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with sales under our ATM Program (as defined below), other capital markets transactions or in connection with other transactions. In addition, pursuant to our CareTrust REIT, Inc. and CTR Partnership, L.P. Incentive Award Plan (the \"Incentive Award Plan\"), we expect to grant equity incentive awards to our officers, employees and directors in connection with their employment with or services provided to us. These issuances and awards may cause your percentage ownership in us to be diluted in the future and could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and reduce the value of our common stock.. In addition, while we have no specific plan to issue preferred stock, our charter authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, privileges, preferences, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, terms of redemption and relative participation, optional or other rights, if any, of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, the repurchase or. 31. Table of Contents. redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. ERISA may restrict investments by plans in our common stock.. A plan fiduciary considering an investment in our common stock should consider, among other things, whether such an investment is consistent with the fiduciary obligations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), including whether such investment might constitute or give rise to a prohibited transaction under ERISA, the Code or any substantially similar federal, state or local law and, if so, whether an exemption from such prohibited transaction rules is available."
