[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not maintain our current rate of revenue growth.. Our revenues have grown steadily, increasing to $174.1 million in fiscal 2017 from $161.8 million in fiscal 2016, representing an annual growth rate of 8%.  Our continued revenue growth and the rate of our revenue growth depend largely on our ability to effectively and efficiently grow our membership, increase the number of families who pay for our products and services, increase the average revenue per paying families and lengthen the time period existing and new families continue to pay for our products and services.  We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to expand our paying family base at historical rates, or at all.  In addition, our revenue growth rate may decline if we are not able to grow our paying families while managing our acquisition costs within our targeted return on investment range or if we are unsuccessful in cross-selling new and existing products and services to our members, such as our consumer payments solutions, or in continuing to develop and innovate with new products, services and solutions that members consider valuable, such as our mobile solutions.. You should not rely on our historical rate of revenue growth as an indication of our future performance.  If our growth rates were to decline significantly or become negative, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We continue to focus on profitable growth; however, we have a history of cumulative losses and may have operating losses as we continue to grow our business.. We experienced net losses from continuing operations of $0.7 million, and $17.9 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively.  Although we had net income from continuing operations of $10.7 million in fiscal 2017, there is no assurance that this will continue into the future.  We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years on an absolute basis, which may lead to losses in the future.  In particular, we intend to continue to invest substantial resources in marketing to acquire new, paying members.  We also intend to hire additional personnel in product, operations, sales and other areas of our business and to introduce new products, services and features, each of which will increase our expenses with no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenue to reduce our losses or achieve profitability.  Although our adjusted EBITDA is profitable in fiscal 2017, there is no assurance that this will continue into the future.. We expect our revenue and operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may result in a decline in our stock price.. Our revenue and operating results have historically fluctuated from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and we expect these fluctuations to continue in the future. These future fluctuations may be significant and unpredictable and may fail to match our projections or the expectations of securities analysts due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control.  Any of these events could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate.. In addition, we generally experience some seasonality fluctuations in our financial results due to heightened demand for caregivers from families at the beginning of the school year and at the beginning of the calendar year. Accordingly, purchases of subscriptions for our consumer matching solutions generally increase in the first and third quarters compared to the second and fourth quarters. Although historically our revenue has increased in each quarter as we have added members, in the future this seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results.  In addition, other seasonality trends may develop, and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we experience may change.. We have based our current and projected future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are relatively fixed in the short term.  As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenue, and even a small shortfall in revenue could disproportionately and adversely affect our financial results for a given quarter.. 12. In addition to the other risk factors listed in this section, our operating results may be affected by a number of factors, including:. •fluctuations in demand for our products and services;. •fluctuations in sales cycles for our products and services;. • the timing of revenue recognition as a result of guidance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States;. •general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets and fluctuations in exchange rates;. •our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that are attractive to our members;. • the mix of monthly memberships and annual memberships, as the amount of revenue recognized per month on an annual membership is less than a monthly membership;. •member acceptance of new product introductions;. •the timing and success of changes in our pricing strategies and our competitor's pricing strategies;. •our ability to sell our services to employers and care-related businesses;. • costs related to acquisitions of other businesses and our ability to successfully integrate, manage and grow those businesses;. • costs associated with actual and threatened lawsuits and government investigations;. • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products;. • any decision to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities;. •our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities;. •changes in the regulatory environment for our products domestically and internationally;. •volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses; and. • unpredictable fluctuations in our effective tax rate due to disqualifying dispositions of stock from our stock incentive plan, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof.. We operate in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful.. The market for accessing family care online is rapidly evolving and has not yet reached widespread adoption, making it difficult for us to predict our future operating results.  In addition, much of our growth has occurred over the last four years, which makes it difficult for us to predict the expected length of paid memberships, revenue per member, member acquisition costs and other key performance indicators for our business.  You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter in this rapidly evolving market.  These risks and difficulties include those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our ability to, among other things:. •attract and retain members and maintain an appropriate family to caregiver ratio of active members;. •encourage paying families to stay longer and return as paying families sooner after their paid membership lapses;. • cross-sell our products and services to our new and existing members;. • continue to develop and diversify our product offerings for members;. • innovate ahead of competition to maintain and expand our market leading position;. • anticipate and react to changes in technology such as the shift from personal computers to mobile devices;. •sell our services to employers and care-related businesses;. •provide our members with superior user experiences;. •motivate members to contribute additional, timely and accurate content to our marketplace;. •anticipate and react to challenges from existing and new competitors;. 13. •maintain the strength and increase awareness of our brand;. •integrate and grow the businesses we acquire as anticipated; and. •manage and grow our international operations in existing and new markets.. Failure to adequately address these risks and difficulties could harm our business, impact our ability to reduce our operating losses and achieve profitability, and/or cause our operating losses to grow.  In addition, if the demand for online care does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this demand, our business will be harmed.. If the revenue generated by paying families differs significantly from our expectations, or if our membership acquisition costs differ significantly from our expectations, we may not be able to recover our membership acquisition costs or generate profits from these investments.. We had $66.9 million in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2017 and $72.3 million in sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2016.  While we intend to further leverage unpaid marketing channels, we expect to continue to make significant investments to acquire additional members, including advertising through television, online, social media and other advertising campaigns.  Our decisions regarding these investments are based on our anticipated marketing cost to acquire each additional paying family, the success of our unpaid marketing initiatives, and our analysis of the revenue we believe we can generate per paying family over the expected lifetime of such membership.. In addition, most of our paying families are currently enrolled in monthly memberships, and the average total paid membership length for our consumer matching solutions is approximately 10.6 months.  As a result, we must regularly replace paying families who allow their membership to lapse with new paying families either by converting existing non-paying families or by attracting new families to our service.  Our anticipated member acquisition costs and our analysis of the revenue that we expect new paying families to generate over the life of the membership depends upon several estimates and assumptions, including paid membership lengths and increasing renewal rates, conversion rates of existing families to paying families, future membership fees and our success in cross-selling existing and new products and services to members.. If our estimates and assumptions regarding either our cost to acquire paying families or the revenue we can generate from those memberships over their lifetime prove incorrect, we may be unable to recover our member acquisition costs and our operating losses may increase.  Similarly, if our member acquisition costs increase, the return on our investment may be lower than we anticipate irrespective of the revenue generated by new members.  If we cannot generate profits from this investment, we may need to alter our growth strategy, and our growth rate and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to introduce new and diversified products, services or features that families and caregivers find valuable, we may not be able to attract and retain families and caregivers on our online marketplace or expand our paying family base. Our efforts to develop new and diversified products and services could require us to incur significant costs.. In order to continue to attract and retain families and caregivers on our online marketplace and expand our paying family base, we will need to continue to invest in the innovation and development of new and diversified products, services and features that add value for families and caregivers. The success of new and diversified products, services and features depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the product, service or feature. If families and caregivers do not recognize the value of our new or diversified products, services or features, they may choose not to use our online marketplace or pay for our services.. Attempting to develop and deliver new or diversified products, services or features involves inherent hazards and difficulties, and is costly.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these product developments or that they will work as intended or provide value to families and caregivers. In addition, some new or diversified products, services or features may be difficult for us to market and may also involve unfavorable pricing. Even if we succeed, we cannot guarantee that our members will respond favorably.. Many individuals use mobile devices to access online services. If users of these devices do not widely adopt solutions we develop for these devices or if we are unable to effectively operate on mobile devices, our business could be adversely affected.. The number of people who access online services through mobile devices, such as smart phones, handheld tablets and mobile telephones, as opposed to personal computers, has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase.  In fiscal 2017, we had an average of over 9.5 million unique visitors to our platform each month, 65% of whom visited our site from mobile devices. In fiscal 2018, we expect the percentage of visitors from mobile devices to increase.  If the mobile solutions we have developed and develop in the future do not meet the needs of prospective members or current members, they may not register for our services, they may not become paying families of our services and/or they may reduce their usage of our services and our business could suffer.  Additionally, we are dependent on the interoperability of Care.com with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and any changes in such systems and. 14. terms of service that degrade our solutions' functionality, give preferential treatment to competitive products or prevent our ability to promote our services could adversely affect traffic and monetization on mobile devices.. Growth in access to our services through mobile devices as a substitute for access on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and operating results.. Our members are increasingly accessing our platforms on mobile devices.  While many of our members who use our online services on mobile devices also access our platforms through personal computers, we have seen substantial growth in mobile usage and mobile only usage.  We are devoting valuable resources to solutions related to monetization of mobile usage, and cannot assure you that these solutions will be successful.  If our members increasingly use mobile devices as a substitute for access to our online services as opposed to personal computers, and if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our solutions on mobile devices, or these strategies are not as successful as our offerings for personal computers, or if the expenses we incur in this effort are greater than we anticipated, our financial performance and ability to grow revenue would be negatively affected.. Our business depends on the strength of our brand.  If the services we provide fail to meet our members' expectations, or if inappropriate actions by certain of our members is attributed to us, our brand may be damaged, and we may be unable to maintain or expand our base of members and paying families.. The strength of our brand is essential to our business.  Member awareness, and the perceived value, of our brand depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and the ability of our members to have a consistent, high-quality experience with our service.  As a result, we must ensure that our new and existing members are satisfied with our products and services.  Complaints, negative views, or negative publicity regarding our products or services, irrespective of their validity, could diminish members' confidence in and the use of our platform and adversely impact our brand.  For example, like many subscription businesses, some members make negative comments about the auto-renew nature of our paid subscriptions in online forums and other public venues.  In addition, news reports have been published in the past raising concerns about the background check services offered through our platform.. In addition, our member experience extends beyond the products and services that we offer through our website and to the point of service.  As a result, inappropriate, illegal or otherwise harmful acts by caregivers or families, even if only by one or a small number of our members and even if such acts are outside of our control, could result in negative publicity or legal action that could have a significant negative impact on our brand.  For example, in recent years there has been an increase in fraud perpetrated against caregivers who seek employment opportunities on sites such as ours, and Care.com has been featured in news reports regarding these scams.  There also have been news reports of alleged criminal conduct by caregivers against families they met through our site, including conduct resulting in death, and in some cases lawsuits have been filed against Care.com relating to such conduct.  If a decision were rendered against us in a lawsuit of this type, we may incur further negative publicity, incremental costs and this could have an adverse effect on our financial statements.  If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful or if our member experience is not otherwise positive, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected.. Furthermore, an adverse, public event resulting from the actions of a caregiver on a competitor's platform could adversely affect us, even if the caregiver has no relationship with our platform and reduce consumer confidence in seeking caregivers through an online platform.. We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively.. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly-skilled personnel.  Our ability to execute efficiently depends upon contributions from all of our employees, in particular our senior management team and employees from key business areas such as product, engineering and analytics.  Key institutional knowledge remains with a small group of long-term employees whom we may not be able to retain.  We do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any of our key employees, including our chief executive officer, and we do not currently maintain key person life insurance for any employee.  In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business.  If our senior management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed.  Our growth strategy also depends on our ability to expand and retain our talent pool.  Identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals require significant time, expense and attention.  In addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best talent. Competition for these resources, particularly in Boston, Austin and the San Francisco Bay area, three areas where we have offices, is intense.  If we are not able to effectively increase and retain our talent, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed.. 15. We believe that our culture has the potential to be a key contributor to our success.  As we grow, if we do not continue to develop our corporate culture it could harm our ability to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our growth.. Finally, we utilize the resources of third parties over whom we have limited control to assist us in developing certain products and features. If any of these third parties terminates their relationship with us or fails to provide adequate services, it could cause delays in our release of new product offerings and/or features and harm our business.. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, operating and financial results may suffer.. We have recently experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant growth, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure.  We expect that our growth strategy will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources. It is important that we appropriately prioritize our efforts and allocate our limited resources effectively. Continued growth also could strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our members, to enhance our product offerings, to develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, to continue to strengthen our reporting systems and procedures and to recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel.  As our operations grow in size, scope and complexity, we will need to scale our systems and infrastructure accordingly and may determine we need to open additional offices, add more network capacity and make other capital investments, which will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources.  For example, in fiscal 2017 to access additional personnel talent, we made the decision to increase our staffing and resources in the Bay Area, a market which is more expensive and competitive than other markets in which we operate.  If we continue to see the need to enter or increase personnel in markets to access specific types of talent, this may increase our expenses going forward.  Additionally, if we fail to maintain the necessary level of discipline and efficiency, or if we fail to appropriately prioritize our efforts and allocate limited resources effectively in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer.. If evolving consumer behavior in the era of mobile devices and messaging/social networking apps hinders our ability to effectively market to and communicate with members and potential members, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels may contract.  To continue to reach potential members and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile and online video platforms as well as targeted campaigns in which we communicate directly with potential, former and current members via new virtual means.  Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels are relatively undeveloped and unproven, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry.  Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging and other virtual means, the reach of our email campaigns may be adversely impacted.  One of our primary means of communicating with our members and keeping them engaged with our products is via email.  Our ability to communicate via email enables us to keep our members updated on activity with respect to their job postings or profile, inform them of new members they may be interested in connecting with, introduce them to new products or services they may be interested in utilizing, and present discount and free trial offers, among other things.  Any erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with our members via email could have an adverse impact on member experience and the rate at which non-paying members become paid members.. If we fail to expand and increase adoption of our Care@Work and consumer payments solutions, our future growth could suffer.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to grow our Care@Work solutions.  Although we have continued to acquire new customers, our growth could be adversely affected if we are unable to acquire new customers at the same rate or volume as we have in the past.  Additionally, our growth could be impacted if we are unable to scale our internal enterprise sales team.  As our Care@Work solutions grow, we also may need to scale our in-home and in-center back-up care network and otherwise scale our operations to deliver services.  We may also need to further differentiate our Care@Work products and services to effectively compete with our competition.  If we fail to continue to acquire new customers, scale our internal enterprise sales team and operations, and differentiate our Care@Work products and services, then our growth may be adversely impacted.. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we intend to grow our consumer payments solutions. Although an increasing number of our members are using Care.com HomePay, a household employer payroll and tax product, our growth could be adversely affected if this trend does not continue.  We also intend to develop other payment and financial solutions to offer to our members as we expand our offerings and services.  When we develop a new product, we typically incur expenses. 16. and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering.   Therefore, these new products must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market.  If we fail to increase adoption of Care.com HomePay, or if any other payments solutions we may offer do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position may be impaired, and our growth could be adversely impacted.. Data security and integrity are critically important to our business, and breaches of security, unauthorized disclosure of information about our members, denial of service attacks or the perception that member information is not secure could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation.. We collect, process and store a large amount of consumer information, including financial information and sensitive personal information.  This data is often accessed through transmissions over public and private networks, including the Internet.  Despite our physical security measures, implementation of technical controls and contractual precautions designed to identify, detect and prevent the unauthorized access, alteration, use or disclosure of our data, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security.  Systems that access or control access to our services and databases may be compromised, as a result of criminal activity, including cyber-attacks and other intentional business disruptions, negligence or otherwise.  Threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure.  Several recent, highly publicized data security breaches and denial of service attacks at other companies have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems.  Unauthorized disclosure or use, or loss or corruption, of our data or inability of our members to access our systems could disrupt our operations, subject us to substantial legal liability, result in a material loss of business, and significantly harm our reputation.. We are subject to diverse laws and regulations in the United States and foreign countries mandating notification to affected individuals in the event that personal data (as defined in the various governing laws) is accessed or acquired by unauthorized persons.  In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which was adopted by the European Union in 2016 and is scheduled to go into effect in May 2018, includes data breach notification requirements with which we will have to comply.  Complying with such numerous and complex regulations in the event of unauthorized access would be expensive and difficult, and failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and additional liability.. We use, store and, in some instances, share information collected from or about our members and site visitors and their devices, which may subject us to governmental and industry regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business.. We receive, store and process information from and about our members and website visitors and their devices, as well as information about Care.com HomePay and back-up care users, including name, contact information, and in some cases sensitive personal information, such as credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers, social security numbers and other personal information such as criminal background information.  In addition, our service enables our members to direct us to share information, including personal and background information, with other members and with third parties.. Diverse legal and industry requirements in the regions where our members and site visitors reside may apply to our collection, use, storage and sharing information about such individuals, including to the extent that our members choose to share data about themselves or family members in connection with potential employment in the home setting.  The scope of these privacy and data protection obligations are changing in substantial and unpredictable ways, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between different regions or conflict with other rules. For example, the E.U.-U.S. Safe Harbor program was invalidated and replaced with the Privacy Shield program in 2016. Privacy Shield has been subject to legal challenges and may not be appropriate for us.. In addition, in April 2016 the E.U. formally adopted the GDPR, which will replace the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC on May 25, 2018. The GDPR will introduce numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in or targeting consumers in the E.U., including greater control for data subjects (e.g., the right to erasure of personal data), data portability for consumers, data breach notification requirements, and increased fines, with potential fines for violations of certain provisions of the GDPR reaching as high as the greater of 20,000,000 Euros or 4% of a company's annual revenue, potentially including the revenue of its affiliates. The GDPR may also have a significant impact on the transfer of data from the E.U. to companies in the United States, including us. While currently we have legally recognized mechanisms in place that we believe allow for the transfer of E.U. member, customer, and employee information to the United States, it is possible that these mechanisms may not be sufficient under the GDPR or other future legal requirements that could have an impact on how we move data from the European Union to Care.com entities outside the European Union.  In response to these regulatory changes, we may have to require some of our vendors who process personal data to take on additional privacy and security obligations, and some may refuse, causing us to incur potential disruption and expense related to our business processes. If our policies and practices, or those of our vendors, are, or are perceived to be, insufficient or if our members and customers have concerns regarding the. 17. transfer of data from the European Union to the United States, we could be subject to enforcement actions or investigations by individual E.U. Data Protection Authorities or lawsuits by private parties, member engagement could decline and our business could be negatively impacted. The requirements imposed by the GDPR and similar laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to us may limit the use and adoption of our products and solutions, which together with the costs of compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Some industry requirements subject us to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, a security standard with which companies that collect, store or transmit certain data regarding credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders, and credit and debit card transactions are required to comply.  Our failure to remain fully compliant with the PCI DSS may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors and merchant banks.  Such failure to comply fully may also subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments.  In addition, there is no guarantee that PCI DSS compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our services or the theft, loss or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders and credit and debit card transactions.. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry requirements relating to privacy and data protection, to the extent reasonably possible.  However, it is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices.  Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or any other privacy-related legal obligations, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our members and customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as customers, vendors or developers, violate applicable laws, their contractual obligations to us or our policies, such violations may also put our members' information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business.. Complying with existing and proposed laws, regulations and industry standards applicable to the collection, use, storage and sharing of data about our members and site visitors can be costly and can delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity and reputational harm, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, increase our risk of non-compliance and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices.. If the businesses we have acquired or invested in do not perform as expected or we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed.. We have acquired nine businesses since our inception. The benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of our acquisitions or investments depend in part on our ability to realize anticipated growth opportunities and cost savings synergies. Our success in realizing these opportunities and synergies and the timing of this realization depend among other things on the successful integration of the acquired companies' businesses and operations with our businesses and operations and the adoption of our respective best practices. Even if we are able to integrate these businesses and operations successfully and implement those strategic initiatives, it may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and synergies we currently expect to achieve, within the anticipated time frame or at all.  If a company we purchase does not perform as we expected, our investment could become impaired or we could discontinue the operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted.. Our mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • difficulties in integrating and managing the combined operations, technologies, technology platforms and products of the acquired companies and realizing the anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;. • legal or regulatory challenges or litigation post-acquisition, which could result in significant costs or require changes to the businesses or unwinding of the transaction;. • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenue, earnings or cash flow;. • diversion of management's attention or other resources from our existing business;. • our inability to maintain the key customers and business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses;. • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions;. • our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of acquired businesses;. • unanticipated costs associated with pursuing acquisitions;. 18. • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses, whether such liabilities were disclosed to us or not prior to our acquisition and whether such liabilities meet or exceed our estimates, including, without limitation liabilities arising out of the acquired business's failure to maintain effective data protection and privacy controls and comply with applicable regulations;. • difficulties in assigning or transferring intellectual property licensed by acquired companies from third parties to us or our subsidiaries;. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies;. • challenges in integrating and auditing the financial statements of acquired companies that have not historically prepared financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;. • difficulties in integrating acquired companies' systems controls, policies and procedures to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and. • potential accounting charges to the extent intangibles recorded in connection with an acquisition, such as goodwill, trademarks, customer relationships or intellectual property, are later determined to be impaired and written down in value.. Moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties provided to us by the sellers of acquired companies, including as they relate to the financial condition of the company, creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property, and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. If any of these representations and warranties are inaccurate or breached, such inaccuracy or breach could result in costly litigation and assessment of liability for which there may not be adequate recourse against such sellers, in part due to contractual time limitations and limitations of liability.. We may continue to make acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, and adversely affect our financial results.. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions to add specialized employees, complementary companies, products or technologies.  The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions.  Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience.  Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities.  For any such transaction, we may:. •issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders;. •use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;. •incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;. •incur large charges or expenses or assume substantial liabilities;. •become subject to new laws and regulations about which we have limited prior experience or knowledge;. •encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired companies; and. •become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges.. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results.  In addition, for legal, technical or business reasons, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of any company we acquire as quickly or fully as we would like.  The integration of any acquired company may require, among other things, coordination of administrative, sales and marketing, accounting and finance functions, harmonization of legal terms and privacy policies and expansion of information and management systems.. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets or goodwill.. 19. We have recorded significant goodwill impairment charges from our discontinued operations and may be required to record additional charges to future earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired.. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or our own operations, and/or other materially adverse events that have implications on the profitability of our business.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a pre-tax goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $33.8 million  and $2.4 million, respectively, related to our Citrus Lane business.  As a result of our decision to exit the Citrus Lane, business, we recorded pre-tax goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $8.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively related to our Citrus Lane business in the second half of fiscal 2015.  We will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill and may be required to record additional charges to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined which could adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 30, 2017, our goodwill balance was $60.3 million and our intangible asset balance was $1.1 million, which represented 33% and 1% of total consolidated assets, respectively.. Our international operations are subject to certain challenges and risks.. While we intend to focus most of our international efforts on growing our existing international markets, we also may expand our international operations in the future.  Our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures.  Our international operations require us to invest significant funds and other resources.  International expansion also subjects us to numerous risks, including risks associated with:. •recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries;. • providing products and services across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including potentially modifying our solutions and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries;. • compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, which, in certain areas such as privacy and data protection, may be more restrictive than U.S. laws and regulations;. • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including without limitation compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act;. •currency exchange rate fluctuations; and. •higher costs of doing business internationally.. If our revenue from our international operations does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer.. We depend on search engines and job board sites to attract a significant percentage of our members, and if those businesses change their ranking or listings practices, algorithms or increase their pricing, it could impact our ability to attract new members.. Many of our members locate our services through search engines, such as Google and Bing.  Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings, and we rely on both types.  Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and are determined and displayed by a set of formulas designed by the search engine.  Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize search result listings.  If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, fewer potential members may find and click through to our services.  Additionally, our competitors' search engine optimization efforts may result in their services receiving greater prominence in search result listings than ours, which could also reduce the number of potential members that visit our services.  We have experienced fluctuations in the prominence of our search result listings in the past and we anticipate fluctuations in the future.  In addition, costs for purchased listings on search engines have increased in the past and may continue to increase in the future.  Price increases could reduce the number of potential members that visit our services and increase our costs.  Any reduction in the number of users directed to our services from search engines would harm our business and operating results.. Job board sites are also an important source of our caregiver acquisition efforts.  We derive much of that volume from organic search listings within those job boards. Should those job board aggregators deny our listings within their organic search listings, we would have to find alternative paid sources to acquire caregivers, which would increase our acquisition costs.. 20. We are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings and investigations which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We are, and expect in the future to be, subject to litigation and various legal proceedings and/or government investigations, including litigation, proceedings and/or government investigations related to privacy, advertising, other consumer protection laws, contracts, intellectual property or other matters and that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations.  We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as and when required or appropriate.  These assessments and estimates are based on information available to management at the time of such assessment or estimation and involve a significant amount of judgment.  As a result, actual outcomes or losses could differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates.  Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The number of our registered families is significantly higher than the number of our paying families and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our paying families.. The number of registered members in our marketplace is significantly higher than the number of paying families because some families choose to register, but not become paying families, and others become paying families, but choose not to renew their paid memberships.  If we are not able to attract new registered families, convert registered families to paying families or retain our paying families for a longer period of time our business may not grow as fast as we expect, which will harm our operating and financial results and may cause our stock price to decline.  Therefore, we must provide features and products that demonstrate the value of our marketplace to our members and motivate them to become paying members.  If we fail to successfully motivate our members to do so, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our business may be harmed if users view our marketplace as primarily limited to finding full-time caregivers for children.. Our membership growth and engagement rates could be adversely affected if consumers perceive the utility of our marketplace to be limited to finding full-time caregivers for children.  Despite the breadth of care needs that can be met through our platform, including after school care, occasional babysitting, senior care, pet care, tutoring and housekeeping, 29% of job postings in fiscal 2017 were for full-time child caregivers.  In addition, our convenience payments product, which may be useful to families who employ any type of caregiver part-time or full-time, child care or senior care, is still in the early stages of adoption among our membership base and we cannot be certain what the rate of adoption will be or if enough of our users will find it sufficiently useful for us to continue to support it.  If families and caregivers fail to utilize the breadth of the family care and other services available through our marketplace, our membership growth and engagement rates could be negatively impacted, and our business will be harmed.. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our platform is accessible, and our business is subject to risks of events outside of our control.. Our members access information through our websites and mobile apps.  Our reputation and ability to acquire, retain and serve our members depend upon the reliable performance of our websites and mobile apps and the underlying network infrastructure.  We have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins, denial of service attacks, capacity constraints and fraud or security violations.  In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time.  It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the availability of our platform, especially during peak usage times and as our solutions become more complex and if our user traffic increases.  If our platform is unavailable when users attempt to access it or it does not load as quickly as they expect, users may use other services and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all.  This would negatively impact our ability to attract users and increase engagement on our website and mobile apps.  We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our platform and to enable rapid releases of new features and products.  To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in our business and in our technology, our business and operating results may be harmed.. Substantially all of our communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our online services and mobile applications are located in facilities that we do not own or control.  Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, floods, fires, power losses, telecommunications failures or acts of war.  For example, a significant natural disaster, such as a major snowstorm or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for such losses that may occur.  In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole.. 21. We have implemented disaster recovery procedures that allow us to move our services to a back-up operating infrastructure in the event of a catastrophe or other event outside of our control.  However, these procedures do not yet provide a real time solution.  Therefore, if our primary operating infrastructure becomes due to a catastrophe or other events outside of our control, there will be a period of time that our platform will remain unavailable while the transition to a back-up operating infrastructure takes place.. Interruptions or delays in service arising from our third-party vendors could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business.. We rely upon third-party vendors to provide certain services upon which we rely, including data center, communications and networking infrastructure services, credit card and payment processing services, background checking services, in-center and in-home back-up care services, email management and delivery services, customer relationship management services and other services critical to our business.  The operation of our product and service offerings could be impaired if the availability of these services is interrupted or limited in any way. We have contractual relationships with these parties but do not have physical control over their daily operations, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide.  If any of these third-party service providers terminates their relationship with us, or does not provide an adequate level of service to our members, it would be disruptive to our business as we seek to replace the service provider or remedy the inadequate level of service.. In addition, these service providers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events.  They also are subject to break-ins, sabotage, acts of vandalism, the failure of physical, administrative, and technical security measures, terrorist acts, human error, financial insolvency and other unanticipated problems or events.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions in our service and unauthorized access to, or alteration of, the content and data contained on our systems and the content and data that these third-party vendors store and deliver on our behalf.. We have experienced, and expect in the future to experience, interruptions and delays in service and availability from third party vendors.  Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with third-party technologies and services could negatively impact our relationship with our members, our brand and reputation and our ability to attract, retain and serve our members.. If we or our service providers fail to process payment transactions effectively and accurately or fail to protect against potential fraudulent activities relating to payment transactions, we may incur expenses and suffer reputational harm.. We offer Care.com HomePay, our household employer payroll and tax services through our subsidiary Breedlove.  We also offer an electronic payments solution through a third-party payments processor that allows families to make electronic payments to their caregivers through our website and mobile apps.  It is possible that we or our service provider may make errors in processing payments or that funds may be misappropriated due to fraud.  We may also make errors in calculating and remitting taxes to the Internal Revenue Service and state tax authorities. In addition, the online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have increasingly been subject to fraudulent activities by third parties.  In addition to any direct damages and potential fines we may incur as a result of payment processing errors or fraud relating to our payments products, negative publicity or a loss of confidence regarding these services could harm our business and damage our brand.. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. We are and will continue to be faced with many competitive challenges, any of which could adversely affect our prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. With respect to our consumer matching solutions, we compete for families, caregivers, employers and care-related businesses with traditional offline consumer resources, online job boards and other, online care marketplaces.  We also compete for a share of care-related businesses' overall recruiting and advertising budgets with traditional, offline media companies and other Internet marketing providers.  Our principal competitors are Craigslist, a ''free to consumer'' website, and Sittercity, Inc., an online care specific marketplace. Our principal competitor in our employer channel is Bright Horizons. In the consumer payments market, Care.com HomePay competes with similar products offered by HomeWork Solutions, Inc. and GTM Payroll Services. In addition, we may in the future be subject to competition from companies that operate other online marketplaces and that decide to expand into the online care market or other established companies that decide to expand into the consumer payments market.  These potential competitors may be larger and have more resources than we do, may enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources.  As a result, these potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities or technologies.. 22. To compete effectively for members, we must continue to invest significant resources in marketing and in the development of our products and services to enhance their value.  To compete effectively for revenue from employers and care-related businesses, we must continue to invest in marketing and in growing our membership.  Failure to compete effectively against our current or future competitors could result in loss of current or potential members, which could adversely affect our margins, and prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively for members in the future against existing or new competitors, and the failure to do so could result in loss of existing or potential members, reduced membership revenue, increased marketing or selling expenses or diminished brand strength, any of which could harm our business.. We may incur liability or other expenses if caregivers or other users of our services engage in inappropriate, harmful or illegal conduct, or if we do not notify our members of alleged inappropriate or illegal conduct.. Families and caregivers have sought, and may seek in the future, damages from us if a caregiver or family does not meet their expectations or causes them harm.  Currently, Care.com is a party to several lawsuits brought by members relating to alleged criminal acts by other members they found through the Care.com site, including acts resulting in death. These types of claims also may be brought under foreign laws. If a decision were rendered against us in a claim of this type, we may incur significant liability and/or negative publicity. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, they may result in significant investigation or defense costs, as well as negative publicity.  In addition, because there is a particularly low tolerance for failure when seeking care for a loved one, any such claims, events or publicity could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation and brand.  Any of these results, particularly damages to our brand and reputation, could adversely affect our financial condition, business and operating results.. Our subsidiary Care Concierge provides back-up child and adult care to families by directly assigning caregivers, some of whom are Care Concierge employees, to families in need of temporary care.  The caregivers and families involved in these transactions are not required to be members of our consumer matching solutions.  To the extent that a caregiver provided through our back-up services does not meet the expectations of a family or causes harm, we may be subject to claims from that family or from the employer that subscribed to this service and offered it as an employee benefit to the family.. From time to time, we become aware of information relating to our members through complaints from other members, publicly available sources or otherwise, which results in the removal of the member from our marketplace.  Because of the complex legal and regulatory environment in which our business operates, we generally do not advise other members when we decide to remove a particular member and, when we do advise members that we have removed a member, we generally do not tell them the reason for removal.  As a result, a member who hires a caregiver through our platform may not be aware that the caregiver has subsequently been removed from our marketplace or the reason the caregiver was removed, and may seek to make a legal claim against us for failure to notify them of the removal or the reason for the removal.  Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, or any claim by a caregiver that he or she should not have been so removed, may be a distraction to management, result in our incurring costs to defend the claim or otherwise harm our business and reputation.. Adverse economic conditions may adversely impact our business.. Our business depends on the overall demand for care.  Our prospective members' employment and income impact their demand for care. Increased unemployment or a reduction in labor force participation could reduce the number of dual-income families-a key component of our target market-and therefore the number of families seeking care.  In addition, if consumer spending is reduced due to a weak economy, families may decrease spending on care services they believe to be non-essential, such as housekeeping and tutoring, or reduce or eliminate certain activities that typically require the services of our caregivers, such as date nights that require babysitters and vacations that may require pet sitters.  As a result, weakened macroeconomic conditions could decrease the traffic on our platform, reduce sales of our products and services and delay adoption of new offerings.. If we require additional funds from outside sources in the future, those funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.. We may require additional funds from outside sources in the future, and we may not be able to obtain those funds on acceptable terms, or at all.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt.  Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders.. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient outside funds, we may have to delay development of new product offerings.  If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs.  We also may have to reduce marketing or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations.  Any of these actions could harm our operating results.. 23. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, some of which are unsettled and still developing and which could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.. We are or may be found to be subject to numerous U.S. federal and state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect consumer-based businesses and companies that conduct business on the Internet. The regulatory environment for many of these laws is very unsettled in the United States and internationally, especially as it applies to the products and services we offer and to the operation of our business generally.  These may involve user privacy, information security and data protection, use of consumer background information, intellectual property, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, telecommunications, taxation, securities law compliance, and online payment services.. For example, our operations are subject to numerous laws that regulate privacy, information security and data protection, and the use of consumer background information. Certain of these laws provide for civil and criminal penalties for the unauthorized release of, or access to, this protected information or for not adopting processes or procedures for handling reported inaccuracies in this protected information.  For example, in the United States we acquire information about our members from consumer credit reporting agencies and other third-party sellers of public data about unique individuals.  We use this information in an effort to verify the accuracy of the information members provide about themselves and to further our business objective to maintain a trusted online community for our members.  We also facilitate the purchase and sharing of third-party consumer reports and criminal background checks by members at the direction of the individual who is the subject of the report.  The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or the FCRA, applies to consumer credit reporting agencies as well as data furnishers and users of consumer reports, as those terms are defined in the FCRA.  The FCRA promotes the accuracy, fairness and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies that engage in the practice of assembling or evaluating information relating to consumers for certain specified purposes, including for employment.  The FCRA limits the distribution and use of consumer reports and establishes consumer rights to access and dispute their own credit files, among other rights and obligations.  Members who access consumer reports about job applicants via our service expressly agree to follow the FCRA requirements for employers.  Violation of the FCRA can result in civil and criminal penalties.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the State Attorneys' General, acting alone or in cooperation with one another, actively enforce the FCRA as do private litigants.  Many states have enacted laws with requirements similar to the FCRA.  Some of these laws impose additional, or more stringent, requirements than the FCRA.. Our operations also subject us to numerous state laws related to auto-renewing contracts.   Among other things, these laws may require specific notifications to consumers prior to and/or after a consumer agrees to an auto-renewing contract, and may specify the manner in which such notifications are given.   We have been, and from time to time may become, subject to legal proceedings and/or government investigations relating to our compliance with state auto-renewing contract laws.  Violation of a state auto-renew law could result in civil penalties and in many instances renders the contract unenforceable, which could result in a refund of all fees paid under the contract.. In addition, the payment processing and tax preparation industries are receiving heightened attention from federal and state governments.  New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations, litigation by the government or private entities or new interpretations of existing laws may subject us to additional legal or regulatory oversight or obligations, restrict the types of products and services that we can offer or the prices we can charge, or otherwise cause us to change the way we operate our payment processing and tax preparation businesses or offer our payment processing and tax products and services.  This in turn may increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities.  In addition, if our practices are not consistent with current or new interpretations of existing laws, we may become subject to lawsuits, penalties and other liabilities.. Because our services are accessible worldwide, we are also subject to a number of laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions.  Moreover, in some cases, a foreign jurisdiction may claim that we are required to comply with its laws even if we have no local entity, employees or infrastructure in that jurisdiction.. If we are not able to comply with existing or new laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability.  This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain solutions, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business.  Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and operating results.. As we develop and sell new products, services and features, we may be subject to additional and unexpected regulations, which could increase our costs or otherwise harm our business.. As we develop and sell new products, services and features to our members, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations, which could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs or restrict our operations.  For example, we offer our convenience payments product to our members through a third party.  If, in the future, we provide this product directly to our members, we would be subject to complex financial regulations.  We may also become subject to financial regulations as we develop additional payment and financial solutions for our members.  In addition, if we expand our. 24. offerings to include more personalized services, we may become subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of children, seniors and/or prospective employees.. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of laws and regulations that governmental organizations or others may claim are applicable to new products and services we may offer, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity or cause us to alter our business practices, which could cause our revenue to decrease, our costs to increase or our business otherwise to be harmed.. We could face liability or other expenses for information on or accessible through our online marketplace, including criminal background check reports.. We offer families the ability to purchase and view through our marketplace criminal background checks of caregivers they are interesting in hiring, subject to the caregivers' consent.  We contract with reputable third-party consumer reporting agencies to offer a variety of background checks that range in cost and comprehensiveness.  For various reasons, including federal and state law limitations, state and county criminal record reporting system limitations, and human and electronic misstatements or errors, even the most comprehensive background check offered may not disclose the existence of all criminal records in all jurisdictions.  Even though we disclose to families that the criminal background checks they purchase and/or view through our marketplace may not be 100% accurate or complete, we are and may continue to be subject to lawsuits alleging that background checks offered through our marketplace failed to accurately disclose the criminal history of a caregiver, which resulted in the family hiring the caregiver and experiencing a loss for which we are responsible.  In addition, we are, and in the future may be, subject to government investigations and inquiries into whether we failed to adequately describe or disclose the limitations of background checks offered through our marketplace.  Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or government proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, a significant portion of the information available through our online marketplace, including job postings, caregiver profiles and photographs, is submitted by families, caregivers and third parties.  We also allow care-related businesses and other third parties to advertise their products and services on our websites and include links to third-party websites.  We could be exposed to liability with respect to this information.  Members could assert that information concerning them on our website contains errors or omissions and/or seek damages from us for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information provided by our members, care-related businesses or others.  We could also be subject to claims that the persons posting information on our websites do not have the right to post such information or are infringing the rights of third parties, such as copyrights in photographs and privacy and publicity rights.  Among other things, we might be subject to claims that by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by the third parties operating those websites.  These claims also may be brought under foreign laws that often do not provide the same protections for online services companies as in the United States.  We could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims even if they do not result in liability to us.. We also allow families to submit reviews of caregivers.  Our terms of use prohibit members from providing inaccurate, misleading, defamatory or false information to us or to any other user of our website and that all opinions expressed must be genuinely held.  However, we do not have a regular practice of verifying the accuracy of all member content.  There is a risk that a review or other content posted by a member may be considered defamatory or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under applicable law.  Therefore, there is a risk that publication on our website of our ratings and reviews may result in a suit against us for defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, discrimination, or other legal claims.  Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and/or injury to our reputation.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights.. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual restrictions, to safeguard our intellectual property.  We do not have any patents or pending patent applications. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our digital content, aspects of our solutions for members, our technology, software, branding and functionality, or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary.  Moreover, policing our proprietary rights is difficult and may not always be effective. As we expand internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States.. Our digital content is not protected by any registered copyrights or other registered intellectual property.  Rather, our digital content is protected by statutory and common law rights, user agreements that limit access to and use of our data and by technological measures.  Compliance with use restrictions is difficult to monitor, and our proprietary rights in our digital content databases may be more difficult to enforce than other forms of intellectual property rights.. 25. We hold several registered trademarks in the United States, including ''Care.com'', which is registered on the principal register.  We also hold registered trademarks in the E.U., Germany and Canada.  Some of our trade names may not be eligible to receive trademark protection.  Trademark protection may also not be available, or sought by us, in every country in which our service may become available.  Competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly confusing consumers and caregivers.. We currently hold the ''Care.com'', ''Betreut.de'', and ''Breedlove.com'' Internet domain names and various other domain names.  Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies.  If we lose the ability to use a domain name in the United States or any other country, we would be forced to incur significant additional expense to market our solutions, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials, which could substantially harm our business and operating results.  The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change.  Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names.  As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the ''Care'' name or other names we utilize in all of the countries in which we currently intend to conduct business.. In order to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our personnel, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships.  These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation of trade secrets or any unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information.  In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and confidential information and, in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties.  Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our trade secret rights and related confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, or our competitors being able to obtain our trade secrets or to independently develop technology similar to ours or competing technologies, could adversely affect our competitive business position.. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violation by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results.. Internet, technology and social media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights.  Some own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us.  We have received in the past and may in the future receive notices asserting that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated a third party's intellectual property rights, and as we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows.  We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights.. We cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or any infringement or misappropriation claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results.  If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims.  Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to: pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, content or materials; and to indemnify our partners and other third parties.  Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures.  Any of these events could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our business and our stock price.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that. 26. misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will be detected.. Our revenue may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales tax or other transaction taxes on all or a portion of our past and future sales in jurisdictions where we are currently not collecting and reporting tax.. We currently only charge and collect sales or other transaction taxes in certain of the jurisdictions where our members reside.  A successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country in which we do not charge and collect such taxes that we should be collecting sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services, or the imposition of new laws requiring the collection of sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services, could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, reduce demand for our products or services, decrease our ability to compete if competitors lower their fees to offset the tax but we do not or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Changes in our provision for (benefit from) income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results.. Our (benefit from) provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by the following:. •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets;. •foreign or domestic income tax assessments and any related tax interest or penalties;. •expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development tax credit laws;. •tax effects of nondeductible compensation;. •adjustments to the pricing of intercompany transactions and transfers of intellectual property or other assets;. •changes in accounting principles; or. • changes in tax laws and regulations, including changes in taxation of the services provided by our foreign subsidiaries.. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes.  The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, that if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital.  In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.  The outcomes from these examinations might have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 30, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $131.3 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of $108.8 million.  Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an ''ownership change,'' the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited.  In general, an ''ownership change'' generally occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by ''5-percent shareholders'' that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  Similar rules may apply under state tax laws.  We may have experienced an ownership change in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our stock, some of which may be outside our control.  As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or other pre-change tax attributes, to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income and taxes may be subject to significant limitations.. Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences.. We generally conduct our international operations through wholly owned subsidiaries and report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions.  Our intercompany relationships are subject to transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions.  The relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions.  If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations.. Comprehensive tax reform bills could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 27. The U.S. government recently enacted comprehensive federal income tax legislation that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, (i) a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, (ii) a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, (iii) a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system (along with certain rules designed to prevent erosion of the U.S. income tax base) and (iv) a one-time tax on accumulated offshore earnings held in cash and illiquid assets, with the latter taxed at a lower rate. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the recently-enacted legislation could create additional operational cost for our Care.com HomePay service and/or adversely affect the tax position of caregivers, which may negatively impact our revenue from that service. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect purchasers of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to any such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. We may not be able to successfully prevent others, including copycat websites and mobile apps, from misappropriating our content in the future.. From time to time, third parties have attempted to misappropriate our content through website scraping, search robots or other means.  We have deployed several technologies designed to detect and prevent such efforts.  However, we may not be able to successfully detect and prevent all such efforts in a timely manner or assure that no misuse of our content occurs.. In addition, third parties operating ''copycat'' websites have attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our service.  When we have become aware of such efforts by other companies, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations.  However, we may not be able to detect all such efforts in a timely manner, or at all, and even if we could, the technological and legal measures available to us may be insufficient to stop their operations.  In some cases, particularly in the case of companies operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the damage to our business caused by such websites or mobile apps.  Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operation of these third parties, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources and have a significantly adverse effect on our brand.. Some of our solutions contain open-source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software and solutions.. We use open-source software in our solutions and will use open source software in the future.  From time to time, we may face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software and/or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code), or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license.  These claims could result in litigation and could require us to purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated solutions unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement.  This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources.  In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software.  Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business and operating results.. We are an ''emerging growth company,'' and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an ''emerging growth company,'' as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, or (c) in which we become a large accelerated filer and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.  These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not included all of the executive compensation-related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company.  We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions.  If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will no longer be an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined by the JOBS Act as of December 28, 2019 or the earlier if any of the criteria above are met.  If. 28. any of the above criteria are met, we may not be permitted to rely on any of the exemptions for emerging growth companies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 2018 fiscal year.. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards.  This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies.  We irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.  We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has and will continue to be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an ''emerging growth company,'' we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The New York Stock Exchange and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives.  Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. We are continually evaluating these rules and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.  These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies.  This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\"  As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U.  A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us.. The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. The announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.  Such global economic uncertainty may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in January 2014 at a price of $17.00 per share and, from the date our common stock first traded on the New York Stock Exchange through February 21, 2018 our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $29.25 and as low as $4.89. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control.  In addition to the factors discussed in this ''Risk Factors'' section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, these factors include:. •our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies;. •the overall performance of the equity markets;. •the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading;. •threatened or actual litigation;. •changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions;. 29. •any major change in our board of directors or management;. • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. •large volumes of sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders; and. •general political and economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies.  Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies' stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance.  Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities.  This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, cease coverage of our company or make projections that exceed our actual results, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is and will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business.  If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline.  If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Furthermore, such analysts publish their own projections regarding our actual results.  These projections may vary widely from one another and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve. Our stock price may decline if we fail to meet securities and industry analysts' projections.. Our management has broad discretion over our existing cash resources and might not use such funds in ways that increase the value of your investment.. Our management generally has broad discretion over the use of our cash resources, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these resources.  Our management might not apply these resources in ways that increase the value of your investment.. Concentration of ownership among our officers, directors, large stockholders and their affiliates may prevent new investors, from influencing corporate decisions.. Our officers, directors and their affiliated funds and certain of our pre-IPO stockholders beneficially own or control, directly or indirectly, a substantial percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock.  As a result, if some of these persons or entities act together, they will have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets.  This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition or cause the market price of our stock to decline.  Some of these persons or entities may have interests different from yours.  For example, because some of these stockholders purchased their shares at prices substantially below the price at which shares are currently being sold to the public and have held their shares for a relatively longer period, they may be more interested in selling the company to an acquirer than other investors or may want us to pursue strategies that are different from the wishes of other investors.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We never have declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes.  Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors.  Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their shares of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. 30. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings;. • providing our board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings;. • establishing a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;. • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and. • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management.. Risks Related to Our Series A Preferred Stock. The issuance of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to CapitalG LP reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, dilutes the ownership of such holders, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could discourage a change in control of our company.. On June 29, 2016, we completed the sale of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to CapitalG LP (\"CapitalG\") for an aggregate purchase price of $46.35 million pursuant to an Investment Agreement, dated June 29, 2016, between us and CapitalG (the \"Investment Agreement\").  As of June 29, 2016, these shares represented approximately 13.7% of our outstanding common stock, on an as-converted basis.  Holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears. The dividends are to be paid in-kind over a seven-year period.. As holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on an as-converted basis together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock to CapitalG, and the subsequent payment of in-kind dividends, effectively reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock, though the impact of the share issuance and subsequent dividends is mitigated by the Company's repurchase of 3.7 million shares of common stock held by Matrix Partners immediately after the closing of the CapitalG transaction.. In addition, the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to common stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We granted CapitalG customary registration rights in respect of any shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by CapitalG, or transferees of our Series A Preferred Stock, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. CapitalG is owned by Alphabet Inc., a multinational conglomerate whose portfolio encompasses several industries and includes numerous companies including Google LLC  It is possible that CapitalG's affiliation with companies such as Google LLC. may deter other companies from exploring acquisition opportunities of the company, particularly if those potential acquirers view Google LLC or other companies affiliated with CapitalG as competitors.. CapitalG may exercise influence over us, including through their ability to designate and the ability of the Series A Preferred Stock holders to elect a member of our Board of Directors, and their interests may not always be aligned with the holders of our common stock.. As of December 30, 2017, CapitalG is the beneficial owner of approximately 13.6% of our outstanding common stock, on an as converted basis, making CapitalG our largest stockholder.  Moreover, the ongoing payment of in-kind dividends to CapitalG. 31. is expected to increase the company's ownership interest in our company.  CapitalG is in the business of making investments in companies, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business, and they may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of our other stockholders.. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Investment Agreement and the Series A Preferred Stock, for so long as CapitalG or its affiliates beneficially own at least 50% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased from us pursuant to the Investment Agreement, the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the right to elect one director to our board, with CapitalG having the right to designate the nominee for such position. Notwithstanding the fact that all directors will be subject to fiduciary duties to us and to applicable law, the interests of the director designated by CapitalG may differ from the interests of our stockholders as a whole or of our other directors.. Our Series A Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of CapitalG or other holders of Series A Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders.. The Series A Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to dividend rights and rights on the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company.. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock also have certain redemption rights or put rights, including the right to require us to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock on any date after June 29, 2023, at 100% of the Liquidation Preference thereof plus all Accrued but Unpaid Dividends, and the right to require us to repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock upon certain change of control events at 150% of the then current Liquidation Preference plus all Accrued but Unpaid Dividends.. These preferential rights could result in divergent interests between CapitalG or other holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock.  Moreover, the repurchase obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition."
