[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. We are subject to a variety of risks, the most significant of which are described below.  Our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.. We operate in a highly competitive industry.  Failure to develop and execute strategies to remain the nation's preferred retailer of used vehicles and to adapt to the increasing use of the internet to market, buy, sell and finance used vehicles could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations.. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive and highly fragmented business.  Our competition includes publicly and privately owned new and used car dealers and online and mobile sales platforms, as well as millions of private individuals.   Competitors buy and sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices.  New car dealers in particular, including publicly traded auto retailers, have increased their sales of used vehicles in recent years.  These new car dealers also leverage their franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers to brand certain used cars as \"certified pre-owned,\" which could provide those competitors with an advantage over CarMax.. Retail Competition.  Some of our competitors have announced plans for rapid expansion, including into markets with CarMax locations, and some of them have begun to execute those plans.  Some of our competitors have also replicated or attempted to replicate portions of the consumer offer that we pioneered when we opened our first used car store in 1993, including our use of low, no-haggle prices and our commitment to buy a customer's vehicle even if they do not purchase one from us.  If we fail to respond effectively to our retail competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Online Sales and Facilitation.  The increasing use of the internet to market, buy and sell used vehicles and to provide vehicle financing could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  Emerging competitors using online focused business models, both for direct sales and consumer-to-consumer facilitation, could materially impact our current business model.  The online availability of used vehicle information, including pricing information, could make it more difficult for us to differentiate our customer offering from competitors' offerings, could result in lower-than-expected retail margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. In addition, our competitive standing is affected by companies, including search engines and online classified sites, that are not direct competitors but that may direct online traffic to the websites of competing automotive retailers.  The increasing activities of these companies could make it more difficult for carmax.com to attract traffic.  These companies could also make it more difficult for CarMax to otherwise market its vehicles online.. The increasing use of the internet to facilitate consumers' sales or trade-ins of their current vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our vehicle acquisition costs and results of operations.  For example, certain websites provide online appraisal tools to consumers that generate offers and facilitate purchases by dealers other than CarMax.. In addition to the direct competition and increasing use of the internet described above, there are companies that sell software and data solutions to new and used car dealers to enable those dealers to, among other things, more efficiently source and price inventory.  Although these companies do not compete with CarMax, the increasing use of such products by dealers who compete with CarMax could reduce the relative competitive advantage of CarMax's internally developed proprietary systems.. If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures or to changes in the used vehicle marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. CAF Competition.  Our CAF segment is subject to competition from various financial institutions, including banks and credit unions, which provide vehicle financing to consumers.  If we were unable to continue providing competitive finance offers to our customers through CAF, it could result in a greater percentage of sales financed through our third-party finance providers, which are generally less profitable to CarMax, or through other outside financing sources.  Moreover, if CAF competitors are able to attract potential customers before they visit CarMax, whether through competitive finance offers or ease of customer experience, they may be directed to retail options other than CarMax.  Accordingly, if CAF was unable to continue making competitive finance offers to our customers, or our finance competitors are able to successfully attract and redirect a disproportionate number of our potential customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Evolving Marketplace.  The marketplace for used vehicles may be impacted by the significant, and likely accelerating, changes to the broader automotive industry.  Technological changes, including the development of autonomous vehicles, new products. 10. and services, new business models and new methods of travel could reduce automotive retail demand or disrupt our current business model.  If we fail to respond effectively to the evolving marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. CarMax was founded on the fundamental principle of integrity.  Failure to maintain a reputation of integrity and to otherwise maintain and enhance our brand could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations.. Our reputation as a company that is founded on the fundamental principle of integrity is critical to our success. Our reputation as a retailer offering low, no-haggle prices, a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles and superior customer service is also critical to our success.  If we fail to maintain the high standards on which our reputation is built, or if an event occurs that damages this reputation, it could adversely affect consumer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Such an event could include an isolated incident at a single store, particularly if such incident results in adverse publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation and could involve, among other things, our sales process, our provision of financing, our reconditioning process, or our treatment of customers.  Even the perception of a decrease in the quality of our brand could impact results.. The use of social media increases the speed with which information and opinions can be shared and thus the speed with which reputation can be affected.  We monitor social media and attempt to address customer concerns, provide accurate information and protect our reputation, but there can be no guarantee that our efforts will succeed.  If we fail to correct or mitigate misinformation or negative information, including information spread through social media or traditional media channels, about the vehicles we offer, our customer experience, or any aspect of our brand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. The automotive retail industry in general and our business in particular are sensitive to economic conditions.  These conditions could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to national and regional U.S. economic conditions.  These conditions include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, interest rates, unemployment levels, the state of the housing market, gasoline prices, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. These conditions and the economy in general could be affected by significant national or international events such as acts of terrorism.  When these economic conditions worsen or stagnate, it can have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for vehicles generally, on demand from particular consumer categories or demand for particular vehicle types.  It can also negatively impact availability of credit to finance vehicle purchases for all or certain categories of consumers.  This could result in lower sales, decreased margins on units sold, and decreased profits for our CAF segment. Worsening or stagnating economic conditions can also have a material adverse effect on the supply of late-model used vehicles, as automotive manufacturers produce fewer new vehicles and consumers retain their current vehicles for longer periods of time. This could result in increased costs to acquire used vehicle inventory and decreased margins on units sold.. Any significant change or deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is dependent upon capital to fund growth and to support the activities of our CAF segment.  Changes in capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the long-term financing to support the expansion of our store base and sales growth in existing stores, could adversely affect sales, operating strategies and store growth.  Although, in recent years, internally generated cash flows have been sufficient to fund our growth, there can be no assurance that we will continue to generate cash flows sufficient to fund our growth.  Failure to do so - or our decision to put our cash to other uses - would make us more dependent on external sources of financing to fund our growth.. Changes in the availability or cost of the long-term financing to support the origination of auto loan receivables through CAF could adversely affect sales and results of operations.  We use a securitization program to fund the majority of the auto loan receivables originated by CAF.  Changes in the condition of the asset-backed securitization market could lead us to incur higher costs to access funds in this market or require us to seek alternative means to finance CAF's loan originations.  In the event that this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some period of time.  The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF's loan originations could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. 11. Our revolving credit facility, term loan, senior unsecured notes and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and performance triggers.  Any failure to comply with these covenants or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility.  If our ability to secure funds from the facility were significantly impaired, our access to working capital would be impacted, our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels could be affected and these conditions - especially if coupled with a failure to generate significant cash flows - could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our more than 25,000 associates.. Our associates are the driving force behind our success.  We believe that one of the things that sets CarMax apart is a culture centered on valuing all associates.  In addition, our strategic initiatives require management, employees and contractors to adapt and learn new skills and capabilities.  Our failure to maintain this culture or to continue recruiting, developing and retaining the associates that drive our success could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Our ability to recruit associates while controlling related costs is subject to numerous external and internal factors, including unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, our growth plans, changes in employment legislation, and competition for qualified employees in the industry and regions in which we operate, and for qualified service technicians in particular.  Our ability to recruit associates while controlling related costs is also subject to our ability to maintain positive associate relations.  If we are unable to do so, or if, despite our efforts, we become subject to successful unionization efforts, it could increase costs, limit our ability to respond to competitive threats and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Our success also depends upon the continued contributions of our store, region and corporate management teams.  Consequently, the loss of the services of any of these associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, an inability to build our management bench strength to support store growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers.  A breach of this confidentiality, whether due to a cyber-security or other incident, could result in harm to our customers and damage to our brand.. We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  This information includes the information customers provide when purchasing a vehicle and applying for vehicle financing.  We also collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential associate information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  Although we have taken measures designed to safeguard such information and have received assurances from our third-party providers, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.  Numerous national retailers have disclosed security breaches involving sophisticated cyber-attacks that were not recognized or detected until after such retailers had been affected, notwithstanding the preventive measures such retailers had in place.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer or associate information, whether experienced by us or by our third-party service providers, and whether due to an external cyber-security incident, a programming error, or other cause, could damage our reputation, expose us to mitigation costs and the risks of private litigation and government enforcement, disrupt our business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, our failure to respond quickly and appropriately to such a security breach could exacerbate the consequences of the breach.. Our business is sensitive to changes in the prices of new and used vehicles.. Any significant changes in retail prices for new and used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  For example, if retail prices for used vehicles rise relative to retail prices for new vehicles, it could make buying a new vehicle more attractive to our customers than buying a used vehicle, which could have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations and could result in decreased used margins.  Manufacturer incentives could contribute to narrowing this price gap.  In addition, any significant changes in wholesale prices for used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing wholesale margins.. We may experience greater credit losses in CAF's portfolio of auto loan receivables than anticipated.. We are exposed to the risk that our customers who finance their purchases through CAF will be unable or unwilling to repay their loans according to their terms and that the vehicle collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to ensure full repayment.  Credit losses are inherent in CAF's business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 12. We make various assumptions and judgments about CAF's portfolio of auto loan receivables and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors.  Although management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate, this allowance may not be adequate.  For example, if economic conditions were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur.  Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is dependent upon access to vehicle inventory.  Obstacles to acquiring inventory - whether because of supply, competition, or other factors - or a failure to expeditiously liquidate that inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. A reduction in the availability of or access to sources of inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Although the supply of late-model used vehicles has been increasing, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue or that it will benefit CarMax.. We source a significant percentage of our vehicles though our appraisal process and these vehicles are generally more profitable for CarMax.  Accordingly, if we fail to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or fail to recognize those trends, it could adversely affect our ability to acquire inventory.  It could also force us to purchase a greater percentage of our inventory from third-party auctions, which is generally less profitable for CarMax.  Our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process could also be affected by competition, both from new and used car dealers directly and through third-party websites driving appraisal traffic to those dealers.  See the risk factor above titled \"We operate in a highly competitive industry\" for discussion of this risk.  Our ability to source vehicles from third-party auctions could be affected by an increase in the number of closed auctions that are open only to new car dealers who have franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers.. Used vehicle inventory is subject to depreciation risk.  Accordingly, if we develop excess inventory, the inability to liquidate such inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We rely on third-party finance providers to finance a significant portion of our customers' vehicle purchases.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third parties.. We provide financing to qualified customers through CAF and a number of third-party finance providers.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide financing to our customers, provide financing to fewer customers or no longer provide financing on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. We rely on third-party providers to supply EPP products to our customers. Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third-parties.. We receive revenue for selling EPP products on behalf of unrelated third-parties, who are the primary obligors. The third parties that provide ESPs are The Warranty Group, CNA National Warranty Corporation and Fidelity Warranty Services. The third party that provides GAP products is Safe-Guard Products International LLC. If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide EPP products, make changes to their products or no longer provide their products on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Our sale of used vehicles is subject to state and local licensing requirements, federal and state laws regulating vehicle advertising, and state laws regulating vehicle sales and service.  Our provision of vehicle financing is subject to federal and state laws regulating the provision of consumer finance.  Our facilities and business operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety.  In addition to these laws and regulations that apply specifically to our business, we are also subject to laws and regulations affecting public companies and large employers generally, including federal employment practices, securities and tax laws.  For additional discussion of these laws and regulations, see the section of this Form 10-K titled \"Business  -  Laws and Regulations.\". 13. The violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease-and-desist order against our business operations, any of which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenses and other costs to comply with these laws and regulations.. Changes in federal labor policy could lead to increased unionization efforts, which could increase labor costs, disrupt store operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Private plaintiffs and federal, state and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities continue to scrutinize advertising, sales, financing and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles.  If, as a result, other automotive retailers adopt more transparent, consumer-oriented business practices, our differentiation versus those retailers could be reduced.  See the risk factor titled \"We operate in a highly competitive industry\" for discussion of this risk.. Our failure to manage our growth and the related challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Our growth is dependent both on opening stores in new and existing markets and continued sales growth in our existing stores.  The expansion of our store base places significant demands on our management team, our associates and our information systems.  If we fail to effectively or efficiently manage our new store growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Sales growth in our existing stores requires that we continue to effectively execute our business strategies and implement new and ongoing initiatives to elevate the experience of our customers.  The expansion of our store base and implementation of new initiatives also requires us to recruit and retain the associates necessary to support that expansion.  See the risk factor above titled \"Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our more than 25,000 associates\" for discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our store base also requires real estate.  Our inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit our expansion and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If we are forced to curtail or stop new store growth or the implementation of our customer experience initiatives, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. We rely on sophisticated information systems to run our business.  The failure of these systems, or the inability to enhance our capabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Our business is dependent upon the integrity and efficient operation of our information systems.  In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage sales, inventory, our customer-facing websites and applications (carmax.com, CarMax mobile apps, and carmaxauctions.com), consumer financing and customer information.  The failure of these systems to perform as designed, the failure to maintain or update these systems as necessary, or the inability to enhance our information technology capabilities, could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. In addition, despite our ongoing efforts to maintain and enhance the integrity and security of these systems, we could be subjected to attacks by hackers, including denial-of-service attacks directed at our websites or other system breaches or malfunctions due to associate error or misconduct or other disruptions.  Such incidents could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations.  See the risk factor above titled \"We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers\" for the risks associated with a breach of confidential customer or associate information.. We are subject to various legal proceedings.  If the outcomes of these proceedings are adverse to CarMax, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to various litigation matters from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings.  These claims could be asserted under a variety of laws including, but not limited to, consumer finance laws, consumer protection laws, intellectual property laws, privacy laws, labor and employment laws, securities laws and employee benefit laws.  These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business.. 14. Our business is sensitive to conditions affecting automotive manufacturers, including manufacturer recalls.. Adverse conditions affecting one or more automotive manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and could impact the supply of vehicles, including the supply of late-model used vehicles.  In addition, manufacturer recalls are a common occurrence that have accelerated in frequency and scope in recent years.  Because we do not have manufacturer authorization to complete recall-related repairs, some vehicles we sell may have unrepaired safety recalls.  Such recalls, and our lack of authorization to make recall-related repairs, could adversely affect used vehicle sales or valuations, could cause us to temporarily remove vehicles from inventory, could force us to incur increased costs and could expose us to litigation and adverse publicity related to the sale of recalled vehicles, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to management's accounting judgments and estimates, as well as changes in accounting policies.. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of CarMax's assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and earnings. If these estimates or assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have identified several accounting policies as being \"critical\" to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require us to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.  These policies are described in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.. The implementation of new accounting requirements or other changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third-party vendors for key components of our business.. Many components of our business, including data management, key operational processes, and critical customer systems are provided by third parties.  We carefully select our third-party vendors, but we do not control their actions.  If our vendors fail to perform as we expect, our operations and reputation could suffer if the failure harms the vendors' ability to serve us and our customers.  The use of third-party vendors represents an unavoidable inherent risk to our company that could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.. We generally realize a higher proportion of revenue and operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters.  If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal quarters, these conditions could have a disproportionately large adverse effect on our annual results of operations.. Our business is sensitive to weather events.. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, hail, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, extended periods of unusually cold weather or natural disasters, could cause store closures or affect the timing of consumer demand, either of which could adversely affect consumer traffic and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations in a given period.. We are subject to local conditions in the geographic areas in which we are concentrated.. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate.  Since a large portion of our sales is generated in the Southeastern U.S., California, Texas and Washington, D.C./Baltimore, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets.  In the event that any of these geographic areas experience a downturn in economic conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations."
