[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Oil and gas prices are highly volatile, and low oil and gas prices or further price decreases will negatively affect our financial position, planned capital expenditures and results of operations.. Our revenue, profitability, cash flow, future growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and gas. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and those markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Oil and gas commodity prices are affected by events beyond our control, including changes in market supply and demand, overall economic activity, weather, pipeline capacity constraints, inventory storage levels, basis differentials and other factors. In the past, we have reduced or curtailed production to mitigate the impact of low oil and gas prices. Particularly in recent years, decreases in both oil and gas prices led us to suspend or curtail drilling and other exploration activities, which will limit our ability to produce oil and gas and therefore impact our revenues. Beginning the second half of 2014 and continuing into 2016, oil prices declined significantly. We are particularly dependent on the production and sale of oil and this commodity price decline has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us. Further volatility in oil and gas prices or a continued prolonged period of low oil or gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity (including our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility), ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations.. It is impossible to predict future oil and gas price movements with certainty. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • the level of consumer product demand;. • the levels and location of oil and gas supply and demand and expectations regarding supply and demand, including the supply of oil and natural gas due to increased production from resource plays;. • overall economic conditions;. • weather conditions;. • domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxes;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • political conditions or hostilities and unrest in oil producing regions;. • the level and price of foreign imports of oil and liquefied natural gas;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting nations to agree upon and maintain production constraints and oil price controls;. • the extent to which U.S. shale producers become \"swing producers\" adding or subtracting to the world supply;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • speculation by investors in oil and gas; and. • variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices.. The profitability of wells, particularly in the shale plays in which we primarily operate, is generally reduced or eliminated as commodity prices decline. In addition, certain wells that are profitable may not meet our internal return targets. Based on our current estimates of drilling and completion costs, ultimate recoveries per well, differentials and operating costs, we believe a portion of our acreage if drilled would not be economical at commodity prices existing in 2017 and most would not be economical at the commodity price lows seen in early 2016. There can be no assurance, however, that any wells, including wells drilled on our Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin acreage, will actually be profitable at any estimated prices. The sustained declines in commodity prices have caused us to significantly reduce our exploration and development activity which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and our business.. 26. Oil and gas drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us.. Our success will be largely dependent upon the success of our drilling program. We acquire unproved properties and lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance our growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our investments.. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including:. • unexpected or adverse drilling conditions;. • elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • fluctuations in the price of oil and gas;. • surface access restrictions;. • loss of title or other title related issues;. • compliance with governmental requirements; and. • shortages or delays in the availability of midstream transportation, drilling rigs, crews and equipment.. Because we identify the areas desirable for drilling in certain areas from 3-D seismic data covering large areas, we may not seek to acquire an option or lease rights until after the seismic data is analyzed or until the drilling locations are also identified; in those cases, we may not be permitted to lease, drill or produce oil or gas from those locations.. Even if drilled, our completed wells may not produce reserves of oil or gas that are economically viable or that meet our earlier estimates of economically recoverable reserves. Our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular project area may decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in our production and revenues and materially harm our operations and financial position by reducing our available cash and resources. The potential for production decline rates for our wells could be greater than we expect. Because of the risks and uncertainties of our business, our future performance in exploration and drilling may not be comparable to our historical performance described herein.. We may not adhere to our proposed drilling schedule.. Our final determination of whether to drill any wells will be dependent on a number of factors, including:. • the results of our exploration efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of the seismic data;. • the availability and cost of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants for the drilling of the prospects;. • the approval of the prospects by the other participants after additional data has been compiled;. • economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling or completion, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and gas and the availability and prices of drilling rigs, drilling and hydraulic fracturing crews and equipment, other services, supplies and equipment, and pipeline system and transportation constraints;. • lease expirations;. • access to water supplies or restrictions on water disposal;. • regulatory approvals; and. • the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects.. Although we have identified or budgeted for numerous drilling prospects, we may not be able to lease or drill those prospects within our expected time frame or at all. Wells that are currently part of our capital plan may be based on statistical results of drilling activities in other 3-D project areas that we believe are geologically similar rather than on analysis of seismic or other data in the prospect area, in which case actual drilling and results are likely to vary, possibly materially, from those statistical results. In addition, our drilling schedule may vary from our expectations because of future uncertainties. We may not be able to raise the capital required to drill all of our identified or budgeted wells. In addition, our ability to produce oil and gas may be significantly affected by the availability and prices of hydraulic fracturing equipment and crews. There can be no assurance that these projects. 27. can be successfully developed or that any identified drill sites or budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive oil or gas. We may seek to sell or reduce all or a portion of our interest in a project area or with respect to prospects or budgeted wells within such project area.. Our reserve data and estimated discounted future net cash flows are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and are based on existing economic and operating conditions that may change in the future.. There are uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their estimated value, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data included herein represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and is based on assumptions that may vary considerably from actual results. These include subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, ultimate recoveries and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves, projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be incorrect. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Reserve estimates may be subject to upward or downward adjustment, and actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves likely will vary, possibly materially, from estimates. Additionally, in recent years, there has been increased debate and disagreement over the classification of reserves, with particular focus on proved undeveloped reserves. The interpretation of SEC rules regarding the classification of reserves and their applicability in different situations remain unclear in many respects. Changing interpretations of the classification standards of reserves or disagreements with our interpretations could cause us to write down reserves.. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. This requirement may limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill those wells within the required five-year timeframe. We have deferred some of our exploration activities in response to the severe price downturn beginning in the summer of 2014 and such continued deferral may increase the impact of this requirement.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 58% of our proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Moreover, some of the producing wells included in our reserve reports as of December 31, 2017 had produced for a relatively short period of time as of that date. Because most of our reserve estimates are calculated using volumetric analysis, those estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay of the structure and an estimation of the area covered by the structure based on seismic analysis. In addition, realization or recognition of our proved undeveloped reserves will depend on our development schedule and plans. Lack of reasonable certainty with respect to development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of these reserves as proved.. The discounted future net cash flows included herein are not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. As required by the current requirements for oil and gas reserve estimation and disclosures, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the average of the sales price on the first day of each month during the trailing 12-month period prior to December 31, 2017, with costs determined as of the date of the estimate. If commodity prices remain at their current levels, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves would generally be expected to increase as earlier months with lower commodity sales prices will be removed from this calculation in the future.. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:. • the actual prices we receive for oil and gas;. • our actual operating costs in producing oil and gas;. • the amount and timing of actual production;. • supply and demand for oil and gas;. • increases or decreases in consumption of oil and gas; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, \"Extractive Activities-Oil and Gas\" may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.. 28. We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future.. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Except to the extent we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent on our level of success in developing, finding or acquiring additional reserves that are economically recoverable. There can be no assurance that undeveloped properties acquired by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such undeveloped properties or wells.. Our future acquisitions may yield revenues or production that varies significantly from our projections.. In acquiring producing properties, we assess the recoverable reserves, current and future oil and gas prices, development and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors relating to the properties. Our assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our review of a subject property in connection with our acquisition assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems or permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the property to assess fully its deficiencies and capabilities. We may not inspect every well, and we may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we do inspect a well. If problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems and we may be forced to assume liabilities that we did not accurately quantify. We may increase our emphasis on producing property acquisitions. We have relatively less experience in such acquisitions as our past acquisition focus has been primarily on nonproducing acreage. Any acquisition of property interests may not be economically successful, and unsuccessful acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations.. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of the ExL Acquisition and may have difficulty integrating the ExL Properties.. There can be no assurance that the ExL Acquisition will be beneficial to us. We may not be able to integrate and develop the ExL Properties without increases in costs, losses in revenues or other difficulties. Any unexpected costs or delays incurred in connection with the integration and development of the ExL Properties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, as well as the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the ExL Acquisition if, among other things, the integration and development of the ExL Properties is unsuccessful or if the liabilities, expenses, title, environmental and other defects, or transaction costs related to the ExL Acquisition are greater than expected or the ExL Properties do not yield the anticipated returns. The market price of our common stock may decline if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the ExL Acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by us or by securities market participants or if the effect of the ExL Acquisition, including the obligations incurred to finance the ExL Acquisition, on our business results of operations or financial condition or prospects is not consistent with our expectations or those of securities market participants.. Upon consummation of the ExL Acquisition, our overall level of debt and Preferred Stock obligations increased, which could adversely affect us.. Upon consummation of the ExL Acquisition, our overall debt level increased after giving effect to the ExL Acquisition and our senior notes offering. In connection with the ExL Acquisition, we issued Preferred Stock with an aggregate initial liquidation preference of $250.0 million (subsequently reduced to $200.0 million) that requires us, upon request of holders of a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, to redeem the Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, on or after the seventh anniversary of its issuance and upon certain defaults and changes of control. Our increased level of debt and other obligations could have significant adverse consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following:. • we may not be able to obtain financing in the future on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes;. • less-levered competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have lower debt service requirements;. • credit rating agencies could downgrade our credit ratings following the ExL Acquisition below currently expected levels; and. • we may be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions than our competitors.. 29. A future issuance, sale or exchange of our stock or warrants could trigger a limitation on our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards.. Our ability to utilize U.S. net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future taxable income is subject to various limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The utilization of such carryforwards may be limited under Section 382 of the Code upon the occurrence of ownership changes resulting from issuances of our stock or the sale or exchange of our stock by certain shareholders if, as a result, there is an aggregate change of more than 50% in the beneficial ownership of our stock during any three-year period. For this purpose, \"stock\" includes certain preferred stock and warrants (including the Preferred Stock and the Warrants issued to finance in part, the ExL Acquisition). In the event of such an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by these loss carryforwards. The limitation is generally equal to the product of (a) the fair market value of our equity multiplied by (b) a percentage approximately equivalent to the yield on long-term tax exempt bonds during the month in which an ownership change occurs. In addition, the limitation is increased if there are recognized built-in gains during any post-change year, but only to the extent of any net unrealized built-in gains inherent in the assets sold. We do not believe we have a Section 382 limitation on the ability to utilize our U.S. loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2017. However, future issuances, sales or exchanges of our stock (including, potentially, relatively small transactions and transactions beyond our control) could, taken together with prior transactions with respect to our stock, trigger an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code and therefore a limitation on our ability to utilize our U.S. loss carryforwards. Any such limitation could cause some of such loss carryforwards to expire before we would be able to utilize them to reduce taxable income in future periods, possibly resulting in a substantial income tax expense or write down of our tax assets or both.. Holders of the Preferred Stock have rights that may restrict our ability to operate our business or be adverse to holders of our common stock.. The Statement of Resolutions Establishing Series of 8.875% Redeemable Preferred Stock of Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. (the \"Statement of Resolutions\") contains covenants that, among other things, so long as the GSO Funds (as defined below) and their affiliates beneficially own more than 50% of the outstanding Preferred Stock, limit our ability to, without the written consent of a designated representative of the Preferred Stock, but subject to certain exceptions, (i) issue stock senior to or on parity with the Preferred Stock, (ii) incur indebtedness that would cause us to exceed a specified leverage ratio, (iii) amend, modify, alter or supplement our articles of incorporation or the Statement of Resolutions in a manner that would adversely affect the rights, preferences or privileges of the Preferred Stock, (iv) enter into or amend certain debt agreements that would be more restrictive on the payment of dividends on, or redemption of, the Preferred Stock than those existing on the Preferred Stock closing and (v) pay distributions on, purchase or redeem our common stock or other stock junior to the Preferred Stock that would cause us to exceed a specified leverage ratio. We can be required to redeem the Preferred Stock (i) after the seventh anniversary of its initial issuance or (ii) at any time we fail to pay a dividend, subject to limited cure rights.. Holders of the Preferred Stock will, in certain circumstances, have additional rights in the event we fail to timely pay dividends, fail to redeem the Preferred Stock upon a change of control if required or fail to redeem the Preferred Stock upon request of the holders of the Preferred Stock following the seventh anniversary of the date of issuing the Preferred Stock. These rights include, subject to certain exceptions, (i) that holders of a majority of the then-outstanding Preferred Stock will have the exclusive right, voting separately as a class, to appoint and elect up to two directors to our board of directors, (ii) that approval of the holders of a majority of the then-outstanding Preferred Stock will be required prior to incurring indebtedness subject to a leverage ratio, declaring or paying prohibited distributions or issuing equity of subsidiaries to third parties; and (iii) that holders of a majority of the then-outstanding Preferred Stock will have the right to increase dividend payments and the ability to require us to pay dividends in common stock.. Holders of the Preferred Stock also have limited voting rights, including those with respect to potential amendments to our articles of incorporation or the Statement of Resolutions that have an adverse effect on the existing terms of the Preferred Stock and in certain other limited circumstances or as required by law.. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties and these third parties may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We frequently own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties will own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one person. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of the other working interest owners such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of the other working interest owners. Some of these working interest owners may experience liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems may lead these parties to attempt to delay the pace of drilling or project development in order to preserve cash. A working interest owner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs. In some cases, a working interest owner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of these third party working interest owners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay. 30. those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from such parties, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or we timely exercise our contractual rights to extend the terms of such leases by continuous operations or the payment of lease extension payments or delay rentals.. Leases on oil and natural gas properties typically have a primary term of three to five years, after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established, applicable lease extension payments or delay rentals are made, or such lease is otherwise maintained pursuant to any applicable continuous operations provision. If our leases on our undeveloped properties expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Although we seek to actively manage our undeveloped properties, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals. If commodity prices remain low, we may be required to delay our drilling plans and, as a result, may lose our right to develop the related properties.. We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder operations.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital needs as a result of our active exploration and development program and acquisitions. We expect that additional external financing will be required in the future to fund our growth. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and financing under our existing revolving credit facility or new credit facilities may not be available in the future. Even if additional capital becomes available, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. As in the past, without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned oil and gas exploration and development drilling program by releasing rigs or deferring fracturing, completion and hookup of the wells to pipelines and thereby adversely affect our production, cash flow, and the recoverability and ultimate value of our oil and gas properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial position and results of operations.. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our ability to sell oil and natural gas and receive market prices for our oil and natural gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. However, such trucking and compression facilities may not always be available to us in acceptable terms or at all. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. Pipeline and gathering constraints have in the past required, and may in the future require, us to flare natural gas occasionally, decreasing the volumes sold from our wells. Our lease terms may require us to pay royalties on such flared gas to maintain our leases, which could adversely affect our business. There is currently limited pipeline and gathering system capacity in areas where we operate. See \"-Interruption to crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and transportation and processing facilities we do not own could result in the loss of production and revenues.\". Historically, when available we have generally delivered our oil and gas production through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own under interruptible or short-term transportation agreements. Under the interruptible transportation agreements, the transportation of our oil and gas production may be interrupted due to capacity constraints on the applicable system, for maintenance or repair of the system, or for other reasons as dictated by the particular agreements. In the Delaware Basin, we have entered into firm transportation agreements for a portion of our production in such areas in order to assure our ability, and that of our purchasers, to successfully market the oil and gas that we produce. We may also enter into firm transportation arrangements for additional production in the future. These firm transportation agreements may be more costly than interruptible or short-term transportation agreements.. A portion of our oil and gas production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system access and capacity, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions, including low oil and gas prices. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash. 31. flow. Furthermore, if we were required to shut in wells we might also be obligated to pay shut-in royalties to certain mineral interest owners in order to maintain our leases.. Interruption to crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and transportation and processing facilities we do not own could result in the loss of production and revenues.. Our operations are dependent upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and transportation and processing facilities we do not own. Any significant change affecting these infrastructure facilities could materially harm our business. The lack of available capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. These systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to adverse weather conditions or operational issues or may not be available to us in the future. See \"-Our operations are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues.\" Additionally, activists or other efforts may delay or halt the construction of additional pipelines or facilities. To the extent these services are unavailable, we would be unable to realize revenue from wells served by such systems and facilities until suitable arrangements are made to market our production. As a result, we could experience reductions in revenue that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for our exploration and development programs and acquisitions, or result in the loss of property.. Instability in the global financial system or in the oil and gas industry sector may have impacts on our liquidity and financial condition that we currently cannot predict.. Instability in the global financial system or in the oil and gas industry sector may have a material impact on our liquidity and our financial condition. We rely upon access to both our revolving credit facility and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations or other sources. Our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money may be restricted or made more expensive at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an adverse impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and on our ability to fund our operations and capital expenditures in the future. The economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, and on the liquidity of our operating partners, resulting in delays in operations or their failure to make required payments. Also, market conditions, including with respect to commodity prices such as for oil and gas, could have an impact on our oil and gas derivative instruments if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, challenges in the economy have led and could further lead to reductions in the demand for oil and gas, or further reductions in the prices of oil and gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The risks associated with our debt and the provisions of our debt agreements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. We have demands on our cash resources, including interest expense, operating expenses and funding of our capital expenditures. Our level of long-term debt, the demands on our cash resources and the provisions of the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our 7.50% Senior Notes, our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"6.25% Senior Notes\") and our 8.25% Senior Notes may have adverse consequences on our operations and financial results, including:. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do;. • limiting our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make certain investments and issue equity on favorable terms or at all;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions;. • increasing our interest expense on our variable rate borrowings if interest rates increase;. • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to make debt service payments, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities;. • requiring us to modify our operations, including by curtailing portions of our drilling program, selling assets, reducing our capital expenditures, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt or obtaining additional financing, which may be on unfavorable terms; and. • making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy, including a decline in oil prices.. In addition, the provisions of our revolving credit facility and our 7.50% Senior Notes, our 6.25% Senior Notes and our 8.25% Senior Notes place restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to incurring additional indebtedness and liens, making dividends and other payments to shareholders, repurchasing our common stock, repurchasing or redeeming our 7.50% Senior Notes, our 6.25% Senior Notes and our 8.25% Senior Notes, making investments, acquisitions, mergers and asset. 32. dispositions, entering into hedging transactions and other matters. Our revolving credit facility also requires compliance with covenants to maintain specified financial ratios. Our business plan and our compliance with these covenants are based on a number of assumptions, the most important of which is relatively stable oil and gas prices at economically sustainable levels. If the prices that we receive for our oil and gas production continue to remain at low levels or to decline, it could lead to further reduced revenues, cash flow and earnings, which in turn could lead to a default under certain financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility, including the covenants related to working capital and the ratios described above. Also, a further decline in or sustained low oil and gas prices could result in a lowering of our credit ratings by rating agencies, which could adversely impact the pricing of, or our ability to issue, new debt instruments. Because the calculations of the financial ratios are made as of certain dates, the financial ratios can fluctuate significantly from period to period as the amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility are dependent on the timing of cash flows related to operations, capital expenditures, sales of oil and gas properties and securities offerings. If a further decline in oil or gas prices were to occur in the future or if low prices continue for an extended period, it could further increase the risk of a lowering in our credit rating or our inability to comply with covenants to maintain specified financial ratios. Additionally, these ratios may have the effect of restricting us from borrowing the full amount available under the borrowing base for our revolving credit facility. In order to provide a margin of comfort with regard to these financial covenants, we may seek to further reduce our capital expenditure plan, sell additional non-strategic assets or opportunistically modify or increase our derivative instruments to the extent permitted under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully execute any of these strategies, or if executed, that they will be sufficient to avoid a default under our revolving credit facility if a further decline in oil or gas prices were to occur in the future or if low prices continue for an extended period.. The terms of our Preferred Stock have many of the same effects as our debt and terms of our debt agreements. See \" - Upon consummation of the ExL Acquisition, our overall level of debt and Preferred Stock obligations increased, which could adversely affect us.\" and \" - Holders of the Preferred Stock have rights that may restrict our ability to operate our business or be adverse to holders of our common stock.\". The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be reduced below the amount of borrowings outstanding under such facility.. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our borrowing base is subject to redeterminations at least semi-annually based in part on assumptions of the administrative agent with respect to, among other things, crude oil and natural gas prices. A negative adjustment could occur if the crude oil and natural gas prices used by the banks in calculating the borrowing base are significantly lower than those used in the last redetermination, including as a result of a decline in crude oil prices or an expectation that such reduced prices will continue. The next redetermination of our borrowing base is scheduled to occur in Spring 2018. In addition, the portion of our borrowing base made available to us is subject to the terms and covenants of our revolving credit facility, including compliance with the ratios and other financial covenants of such facility. In the event the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility exceeds the redetermined borrowing base, we could be forced to repay a portion of our borrowings. We may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell a portion of our assets.. We may face difficulties in securing and operating under authorizations and permits to drill, complete or operate our wells.. The recent growth in oil and gas exploration in the United States has drawn intense scrutiny from environmental and community interest groups, regulatory agencies and other governmental entities. As a result, we may face significant opposition to, or increased regulation of, our operations that may make it difficult or impossible to obtain permits and other needed authorizations to drill, complete or operate, result in operational delays, or otherwise make oil and gas exploration more costly or difficult than in other countries.. We have only limited experience drilling wells in the Delaware Basin and less information regarding reserves and decline rates in these shale formations than in some other areas of our operations.. We have limited exploration and development experience in the Delaware Basin. We have participated in the drilling of only 40 gross (20.3 net) wells in the Delaware Basin. Other operators in these areas have significantly more experience in the drilling of wells, including the drilling of horizontal wells. As a result, we have less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves, the production decline rate and other matters relating to the exploration, drilling and development of the Delaware Basin than we have in our Eagle Ford area in which we operate.. If we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce oil and gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired.. We use a substantial amount of water in our drilling operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or to treat and dispose of water after drilling at a reasonable cost, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of. 33. new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. Furthermore, future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells could increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. For example, in June 2016, the EPA established pretreatment standards for disposal of wastewater produced from unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities into publicly owned treatment works. In response to these actions, operators including us have begun to rely more on recycling of flowback and produced water from well sites as a preferred alternative to disposal.. We may not increase our acreage positions in areas with exposure to oil, condensate and NGLs.. If we are unable to increase our acreage positions in the Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin, this may detract from our efforts to realize our growth strategy in crude oil plays. Additionally, we may be unable to find or consummate other opportunities in these areas or in other areas with similar exposure to oil, condensate and NGLs on similar terms or at all.. Restricted land access could reduce our ability to explore for and develop oil and gas reserves.. Our ability to adequately explore for and develop oil and gas resources is affected by a number of factors related to access to land. Examples of factors which reduce our access to land include, among others:. • new municipal or state land use regulations, which may restrict drilling locations or certain activities such as hydraulic fracturing;. • local and municipal government control of land or zoning requirements, which can conflict with state law and deprive land owners of property development rights;. • landowner or foreign governments' opposition to infrastructure development;. • regulation of federal land by the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management or other federal government agencies;. • anti-development activities, which can reduce our access to leases through legal challenges or lawsuits, disruption of drilling, or damage to equipment;. • disputes regarding leases; and. • disputes with landowners, royalty owners, or other operators over such matters as title transfer, joint interest billing arrangements, revenue distribution, or production or cost sharing arrangements.. Loss of access to land for which we own mineral rights could result in a reduction in our proved reserves and a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Reduced ability to obtain new leases could constrain our future growth and opportunity set by limiting the expansion of our operations.. We face strong competition from other oil and gas companies.. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have been engaged in the oil and gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on favorable terms. These companies may also have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices, such as the current commodity price environment, and to absorb the burden of current and future governmental regulations and taxation. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, other oil and gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological. 34. advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Part of our strategy involves drilling existing or emerging shale plays using some of the latest available seismic, horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our planned exploratory and delineation drilling in these plays are subject to drilling and completion technique risks, and drilling results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. As a result, the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced technologies in evaluating undeveloped properties and in conducting our exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively, prior to drilling and completing a well, whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically.. Many of our operations involve drilling and completion techniques developed by us or our service providers in order to maximize cumulative recoveries. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore in the desired drilling zone, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the well bore, and being able to run tools and recover equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools and other equipment the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, being able to recover such tools and other equipment, and successfully cleaning out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, limited access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity, commodity price decline, or other reasons, then the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. We are subject to various environmental risks and governmental regulations, including those relating to benzene emissions, hydraulic fracturing and global climate change, and future regulations may be more stringent resulting in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and gas that we produce.. Oil and gas operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations that may change from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, well testing, plug and abandonment requirements and bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and gas. Other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating primarily to the protection of human health and the environment apply to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and gas operations, including drilling fluids and wastewater. We may incur costs arising out of property damage, including environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of property we purchase or lease or relating to third party sites, or injuries to employees and other persons. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities and may be required to incur substantial remediation costs. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Compliance with existing, new or modified laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, delay our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Moreover, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and such laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time. Increased scrutiny of our industry may also occur as a result of the EPA's 2017-2019 National Enforcement Initiative, \"Ensuring Energy Extraction Activities Comply with Environmental Laws,\" through which the EPA will address incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities that may cause or contribute to significant harm to public health or the environment. Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and negatively impact our production and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See \"Item 1. Business-Additional Oil and Gas Disclosures-Regulation-Environmental Regulations\" for additional information.. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide to the issue of climate change and the contributing effect of GHG emissions. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing oil and gas exploration in the areas in which we operate could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs. See \"Item 1. Business-Additional Oil and Gas Disclosures-Regulation- Global Climate Change\" for additional information.. 35. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and gas wells, particularly in unconventional resource plays. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to federal regulation and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by us and others in the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act and has released permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations that use diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority. In addition, in March 2015, the BLM issued a final rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian land. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the 2015 rule. Further, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in May 2014 seeking comments relating to the information that should be reported or disclosed for hydraulic fracturing chemical substances and mixtures and mechanisms for obtaining this information. A number of federal agencies are also analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released the final results of a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources in the states where the EPA is the permitted authority. The study concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their course and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or other regulatory mechanisms.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In a few instances, operators of injection wells in the vicinity of seismic events have been ordered to reduce injection volumes or suspend operations. Some state regulatory agencies, including those in Texas, have modified their regulations to account for induced seismicity. Regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. A 2012 report published by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that only a very small fraction of the tens of thousands of injection wells have been suspected to be, or have been, the likely cause of induced seismicity; and a 2015 report by researchers at the University of Texas has suggested that the link between seismic activity and wastewater disposal may vary by region. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey (the \"USGS\") identified states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, which included Texas. A 2017 study conducted by the USGS similarly identified a high seismic hazard for areas of several states, including north Texas. A number of lawsuits have been filed alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells and hydraulic fracturing. Such regulations and restrictions could cause delays and impose additional costs and restrictions on our operations and on our and our contractors' waste disposal activities.. Several states, including states where we operate such as Texas, have proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, public disclosure of fracturing fluid contents, water sampling requirements, and operational restrictions. Further, some states and local governments have adopted or are considering adopting bans on drilling. For example, the City of Denton, Texas adopted a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in November 2014, which was later lifted in 2015. We use hydraulic fracturing extensively and any increased federal, state, local, foreign or international regulation of hydraulic fracturing or offshore drilling, including legislation and regulation in the state of Texas, could reduce the volumes of oil and gas that we can economically recover, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. See \"Item 1. Business-Additional Oil and Gas Disclosures-Regulation-Regulation of Natural Gas and Oil Exploration and Production\" and \"-Environmental Regulations\" for additional information.. From time to time legislation is introduced in the U.S. Congress that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could defer or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.. We face various risks associated with the trend toward increased anti-development activity.. As new technologies have been applied to our industry, we have seen significant growth in oil and gas supply in recent years, particularly in the U.S. With this expansion of oil and gas development activity, opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing both in the U.S. and globally. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as us, can be the target of opposition to development from certain stakeholder groups. These anti-development efforts could be focused on:. • limiting oil and gas development;. • reducing access to federal and state owned lands;. • delaying or canceling certain projects such as shale development and pipeline construction;. 36. • limiting or banning the use of hydraulic fracturing;. • denying air-quality permits for drilling; and. • advocating for increased regulations on shale drilling and hydraulic fracturing.. Future anti-development efforts could result in the following:. •  blocked development;. •  denial or delay of drilling permits;. •  shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;. •  restrictions on installation or operation of gathering or processing facilities;. •  restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing;. •  reduced access to water supplies or restrictions on water disposal;. •  limited access or damage to or destruction of our property;. •  legal challenges or lawsuits;. •  increased regulation of our business;. •  damaging publicity and reputational harm;. •  increased costs of doing business;. •  reduction in demand for our products; and. •  other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production.. Our need to incur costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any new legal or regulatory requirements resulting from these activities that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the use of social media channels can be used to cause rapid, widespread reputational harm.. Our operations are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues.. The oil and gas business involves operating hazards such as:. • well blowouts;. • mechanical failures;. • explosions;. • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses, which could release oil, natural gas, drilling fluids or hydraulic fracturing fluids;. • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;. • fires;. • geologic formations with abnormal pressures;. • spillage handling and disposing of materials, including drilling fluids and hydraulic fracturing fluids and other pollutants;. • pipeline ruptures or spills;. • releases of toxic gases;. • adverse weather conditions, including drought, flooding, winter storms, snow, hurricanes or other severe weather events; and. • other environmental hazards and risks including conditions caused by previous owners and lessors of our properties.. Any of these hazards and risks can result in substantial losses to us from, among other things, injury or loss or life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, cleanup responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. As a result we could incur substantial liabilities. 37. or experience reductions in revenue that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for our exploration and development programs and acquisitions.. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face.. We maintain insurance against losses and liabilities in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, losses could occur for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We conduct a portion of our operations through a joint venture, which subjects us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on the success of these operations, our financial position and our results of operations.. We conduct a portion of our operations through a joint venture with GAIL. We may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected.. Our joint venture arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example:. • our joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions;. • our joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture's obligations, leaving us liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities;. • we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our joint venture partners;. • we may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of and matters relating to the joint ventures;. • our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; and. • disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The agreements under which we formed certain joint ventures may subject us to various risks, limit the actions we may take with respect to the properties subject to the joint venture and require us to grant rights to our joint venture partners that could limit our ability to benefit fully from future positive developments. Some joint ventures require us to make significant capital expenditures. If we do not timely meet our financial commitments or otherwise do not comply with our joint venture agreements, our rights to participate, exercise operator rights or otherwise influence or benefit from the joint venture may be adversely affected. Certain of our joint venture partners may have greater financial resources than we have and we may not be able to secure the funding necessary to participate in operations our joint venture partners propose, thereby reducing our ability to benefit from the joint venture.. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate.. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements or an operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues or could create liability for us for the operator's failure to properly maintain the well and facilities and to adhere to applicable safety and environmental standards. With respect to properties that we do not operate:. • the operator could refuse to initiate exploration or development projects;. 38. • if we proceed with any of those projects the operator has refused to initiate, we may not receive any funding from the operator with respect to that project;. • the operator may initiate exploration or development projects on a different schedule than we would prefer;. • the operator may propose greater capital expenditures than we wish, including expenditures to drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we have funds for, which may mean that we cannot participate in those projects or participate in a substantial amount of the revenues from those projects; and. • the operator may not have sufficient expertise or resources.. Any of these events could significantly and adversely affect our anticipated exploration and development activities.. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel.. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have entered into employment agreements with many of our key employees as a way to assist in retaining their services and motivating their performance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will also be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel.. We may experience difficulty in achieving and managing future growth.. We have experienced growth in the past primarily through the expansion of our drilling program. Future growth may place strains on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources and cause us to rely more on project partners and independent contractors, possibly negatively affecting our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to grow will depend on a number of factors, including:. • our ability to obtain leases or options on properties, including those for which we have 3-D seismic data;. • our ability to acquire additional 3-D seismic data;. • our ability to identify and acquire new exploratory prospects;. • our ability to develop existing prospects;. • our ability to continue to retain and attract skilled personnel;. • our ability to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors;. • the results of our drilling program;. • hydrocarbon prices; and. • our access to capital.. We may not be successful in upgrading our technical, operations and administrative resources or in increasing our ability to internally provide certain of the services currently provided by outside sources, and we may not be able to maintain or enter into new relationships with project partners and independent contractors. Our inability to achieve or manage growth may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. We may continue to enter into or exercise commodity derivative transactions to manage the price risks associated with our production, which may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices for oil and gas.. Because oil and gas prices are unstable, we periodically enter into price-risk-management transactions such as fixed-rate swaps, costless collars, three-way collars, puts, calls and basis differential swaps to reduce our exposure to price declines associated with a portion of our oil and gas production and thereby to achieve a more predictable cash flow. Additionally, in our ExL Acquisition, we entered into arrangements whereby we will be required to make additional payments if oil prices exceed specified levels for certain periods of time. We have also entered into arrangements in some of our disposition transactions where we similarly receive such payments. The use of these arrangements limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of oil and gas. Additionally, some derivative transactions may help to assure favorable pricing in the near term, but at the cost of limiting our ability to benefit from price increases that occur in subsequent years. At any given time our derivative arrangements may apply to only a portion of our production, including following the exercise of any then-existing derivative instruments, thereby providing only partial protection against declines in oil and gas prices. These arrangements may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which production is less than expected, our customers fail to purchase contracted quantities of oil and gas or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or gas prices. In addition, the counterparties under our derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or there may be an adverse change in the expected differential between. 39. the underlying price in the derivative instrument and the actual prices received for our production. During periods of declining commodity prices, our commodity price derivative positions increase, which increases our counterparty exposure.. As our derivatives expire, more of our future production will be sold at market prices unless we enter into additional derivative transactions. If we are unable to enter into new derivative contracts in the future at favorable pricing and for a sufficient amount of our production, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. It is also possible that a larger percentage of our future production will not be hedged as our derivative policies may change, which would result in our oil and gas revenue becoming more sensitive to commodity price changes.. The CFTC has promulgated regulations to implement statutory requirements for swap transactions. These regulations are intended to implement a regulated market in which most swaps are executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. While we believe that our use of swap transactions exempt us from certain regulatory requirements, the changes to the swap market due to increased regulation could significantly increase the cost of entering into new swaps or maintaining existing swaps, materially alter the terms of new or existing swap transactions and/or reduce the availability of new or existing swaps. If we reduce our use of swaps as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable.. Periods of high demand for oil field services and equipment and the ability of suppliers to meet that demand may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and gas properties.. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, well service providers and related equipment and personnel may be in short supply. These shortages can cause escalating prices, delays in drilling and other exploration activities and the possibility of poor services coupled with potential damage to downhole reservoirs and personnel injuries. Such pressures may increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to any accidents sustained from the overuse of equipment and inexperienced personnel. After a period of general declines in oilfield service and equipment costs following commodity price decreases, such costs could increase as commodity prices rise and may limit our ability to drill and produce our oil and gas properties.. If crude oil and natural gas prices decline to near or below the low levels experienced in 2015 and 2016 we could be required to record additional impairments of proved oil and gas properties that would constitute a charge to earnings and reduce our shareholders' equity.. At the end of each quarter, the net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, are limited to the \"cost center ceiling\" equal to (i) the sum of (A) the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves, less estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves computed using a discount factor of 10%, (B) the costs of unproved properties not being amortized, and (C) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties included in the costs being amortized; less (ii) related income tax effects. Any excess of the net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes, over the cost center ceiling is recognized as an impairment of proved oil and gas properties. An impairment recognized in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even if higher commodity prices in the future result in a cost center ceiling in excess of the net book value of oil and gas properties, less related deferred income taxes.. The estimated future net revenues used in the cost center ceiling are calculated using the 12-Month Average Realized Price. Primarily due to declines in the 12-Month Average Realized Price of crude oil, we recognized no impairments of proved oil and gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $576.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Declines in the 12-Month Average Realized Price of crude oil in subsequent quarters would result in a lower present value of the estimated future net revenues from proved oil and gas reserves and may result in additional impairments of proved oil and gas properties.. Unproved properties, not being amortized, are assessed on a quarterly basis to determine whether or not and to what extent proved reserves have been assigned to the properties or if an impairment has occurred, in which case the related costs along with associated capitalized interest are added to the oil and gas property costs subject to amortization. This assessment requires the use of judgment and estimates all of which may prove to be inaccurate. If crude oil and natural gas prices decline from their current levels, we may need to write down the carrying value of our unproved oil and gas properties, which will result in increased DD&A for future periods.. An impairment does not impact cash flows from operating activities but does reduce earnings and our shareholders' equity and increases the balance sheet leverage as measured by debt-to-total capitalization. The risk that we will be required to recognize impairments of our proved oil and gas properties increases during periods of low or declining oil or gas prices. In addition, impairments would occur if we were to experience sufficient downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or the present value of estimated future net revenues, as further discussed under \"-Our reserve data and estimated discounted future net cash flows are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and are based on existing economic and operating conditions that may change in the future.\" We have in the past and could in the future incur additional impairments of oil and gas properties, particularly if oil and natural gas prices decline or remain at low levels.. 40. A valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset could reduce our earnings.. Deferred tax assets are recorded for net operating losses and temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities expected to produce tax deductions in future periods. The ultimate realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those deferred tax assets would be deductible. We assess the realizability of the deferred tax assets each period by considering whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we record a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset, which has occurred since 2015 where we recorded a valuation allowance, reducing the net deferred tax asset to zero. This valuation allowance reduces earnings and our shareholders' equity and increases the balance sheet leverage as measured by debt-to-total capitalization. The valuation allowance remained as of December 31, 2017, and will remain until such time, if ever, that we can determine that the net deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized.. The taxation of independent producers is subject to change, and federal and state proposals being considered could increase our cost of doing business.. From time to time, legislative proposals are made that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination or postponement of certain key United States federal income tax incentives currently available to independent producers of oil and natural gas. Proposals that would significantly affect us could include a repeal of the expensing of intangible drilling costs, a repeal of the percentage depletion allowance and an increase in the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses. These changes, if enacted, will make it more costly for us to explore for and develop our oil and natural gas resources.. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies.. We purchase working and revenue interests in the oil and gas leasehold interests upon which we will perform our exploration activities from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leaseholds is not generally available and, in all instances, we forego the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest to be placed under lease or already placed under lease until the drilling block is assembled and ready to be drilled. Even then, the cost of performing detailed title work can be expensive. We may choose to forgo detailed title examination by title lawyers on a portion of the mineral leases that we place in a drilling unit or conduct less title work than we have traditionally performed. As is customary in our industry, we generally rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and before drilling a well on a leased tract. We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability or adequacy of the title to us. The work might include obtaining affidavits of heirship or causing an estate to be administered. In cases involving more serious title problems, the amount paid for affected oil and gas leases can be generally lost and the target area can become undrillable. The failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. The threat and impact of terrorist attacks, cyber attacks or similar hostilities may adversely impact our operations.. We face various security threats, including attempts by third parties to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts and acts of war. These threats relate both to information relating to us and to third parties with whom we do business including landowners, employees, suppliers, customers and others. There can be no assurance that the procedures and controls we use to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to them will be sufficient in preventing them from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. In particular, the oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. For example, software programs are used to interpret seismic data, manage drilling activities, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and to process and record financial and operating data. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud application and services, to store, transmit, process and record sensitive information (including trade secrets, employee information and financial and operating data), communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves and for many other activities related to our business. The complexity of the technologies needed to explore for and develop oil, natural gas and NGLs makes certain information more attractive to thieves.. 41. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, operating partners, purchasers of our production, and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. Some of these business partners may be provided limited access to our sensitive information or our information systems and related infrastructure in the ordinary course of business.. As dependence on digital technologies has increased so has the risk of cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of others with whom we do business, may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, theft of property or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. A cyber incident involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could disrupt our business plans and negatively impact our operations. We may be the target of such attacks and we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.. We cannot assess the extent of either the threat or the potential impact of future terrorist attacks on the energy industry in general, and on us in particular, either in the short-term or in the long-term. Uncertainty surrounding such attacks may affect our operations in unpredictable ways.. Certain anti-takeover provisions may affect your rights as a shareholder.. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to set the terms of and issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. Our board of directors could use the preferred stock as a means to delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in our best interest. In addition, our revolving credit facility, our indentures governing our senior notes and our existing Preferred Stock contain terms that may restrict our ability to enter into change of control transactions, including requirements to repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility and to offer to repurchase senior notes or to redeem our Preferred Stock, in either event upon a change in control, as determined under the relevant documents relating to such indebtedness or Preferred Stock. These provisions, along with specified provisions of the Texas Business Organizations Code and our articles of incorporation and bylaws, may discourage or impede transactions involving actual or potential changes in our control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock.. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations.. Information technology solution failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information, or damage to our reputation. There can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows."
