[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information and data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could make it more difficult to profitably expand our business and could also have a negative impact on our operating results if customers favor our competitors or we are forced to change our pricing and other marketing strategies.. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. In each of our markets, our restaurants compete with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as locally owned restaurants, offering low and medium-priced fare. We also compete with convenience stores, delicatessens and prepared food counters in grocery stores, supermarkets, cafeterias and other purveyors of moderately priced and quickly prepared food. We believe our largest competitors are McDonald's and Wendy's restaurants.. Due to competitive conditions, we, as well as certain of the other major quick-service restaurant chains, have offered select food items and combination meals at discounted prices. These pricing and marketing strategies have had, and in the future may have, a negative impact on our sales and earnings.. Factors applicable to the quick-service restaurant segment may adversely affect our results of operations, which may cause a decrease in earnings and revenues.. The quick-service restaurant segment is highly competitive and can be materially adversely affected by many factors, including:. • changes in local, regional or national economic conditions;. • changes in demographic trends;. • changes in consumer tastes;. • changes in traffic patterns;. • increases in fuel prices and utility costs;. • consumer concerns about health, diet and nutrition;. • increases in the number of, and particular locations of, competing restaurants;. • changes in discretionary consumer spending;. • inflation;. • increases in the cost of food, such as beef, chicken, produce and packaging;. • increased labor costs, including healthcare, unemployment insurance and minimum wage requirements;. • the availability of experienced management and hourly-paid employees; and. • regional weather conditions.. 14. We are highly dependent on the Burger King system and our ability to renew our franchise agreements with BKC. The failure to renew our franchise agreements or Burger King's failure to compete effectively would materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Due to the nature of franchising and our agreements with BKC, our success is, to a large extent, directly related to the success of the Burger King system including its financial condition, advertising programs, new products, overall quality of operations and the successful and consistent operation of Burger King restaurants owned by other franchisees. We cannot assure you that Burger King will be able to compete effectively with other restaurants. As a result, any failure of Burger King to compete effectively would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Under each of our franchise agreements with BKC, we are required to comply with operational programs established by BKC. For example, our franchise agreements with BKC require that our restaurants comply with specified design criteria. In addition, BKC generally has the right to require us during the tenth year of a franchise agreement to remodel our restaurants to conform to the then-current image of Burger King, which may require the expenditure of considerable funds. In addition we may not be able to avoid adopting menu price discount promotions or permanent menu price decreases instituted by BKC that may be unprofitable.. Our franchise agreements typically have a 20-year term after which BKC's consent is required to receive a successor franchise agreement. Our franchise agreements with BKC that are set to expire over the next three years are as follows: 43 in 2018, 29 in 2019 and 51 in 2020.. We cannot assure you that BKC will grant each of our future requests for successor franchise agreements, and any failure of BKC to renew our franchise agreements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as a condition of approval of a successor franchise agreement, BKC may require us to make capital improvements to particular restaurants to bring them up to Burger King current image standards, which may require us to incur substantial costs.. In addition, our franchise agreements with BKC do not give us exclusive rights to operate Burger King restaurants in any defined territory. Although we believe that BKC generally seeks to ensure that newly granted franchises do not materially adversely affect the operations of existing restaurants, we cannot assure you that franchises granted by BKC to third parties will not adversely affect any restaurants that we operate.. Additionally, as a franchisee, we have no control over the Burger King brand. If BKC does not adequately protect the Burger King brand and other intellectual property, our competitive position and operating results could be harmed.. 15. Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions of additional Burger King restaurants and we may not find Burger King restaurants that are suitable acquisition candidates or successfully operate or integrate any Burger King restaurants we may acquire.. As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue the acquisition of additional Burger King restaurants. Pursuant to the operating agreement between BKC and Carrols LLC, dated as of May 30, 2012, as amended on January 26, 2015 and December 17, 2015, BKC assigned to us its ROFR under its franchise agreements with its franchisees to purchase all of the assets of a restaurant or all or substantially all of the voting stock of the franchisee, whether direct or indirect, on the same terms proposed between such franchisee and a third party purchaser in 20 states as follows: Connecticut (except Hartford county), Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts (except for Middlesex, Norfolk and Suffolk counties), Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York (except for Bronx, Kings, Nassau, New York, Queens, Richmond, Suffolk and Westchester counties), North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Vermont, Virginia, Washington DC, and West Virginia. In addition, pursuant to the operating agreement, BKC granted us, on a non-exclusive basis, franchise pre-approval to, among other things, acquire restaurants from Burger King franchisees in the 20 states above until we operate 1,000 Burger King restaurants. As part of the franchise pre-approval, BKC granted us pre-approval for acquisitions of restaurants from franchisees in the 20 states above  subject to and in accordance with the terms of the operating agreement. Although we believe that opportunities for future acquisitions may be available from time to time, competition for acquisition candidates may exist or increase in the future. Consequently, there may be fewer acquisition opportunities available to us at an attractive acquisition price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, manage or successfully integrate additional restaurants without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems. In the event we are able to acquire additional restaurants, the integration and operation of the acquired restaurants may place significant demands on our management, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We may be required to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on acceptable terms or at all. Both our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the $275.0 million of 8% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2022 (the \"Notes\") contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from incurring additional debt to acquire additional Burger King restaurants.. We may experience difficulties in integrating restaurants acquired by us into our existing business.. The acquisition of a significant number of restaurants will involve the integration of those acquired restaurants with our existing business. The difficulties of integration include:. • coordinating and consolidating geographically separated systems and facilities;. • integrating the management and personnel of the acquired restaurants, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees;. • implementing our management information systems; and. • implementing operational procedures and disciplines to control costs and increase profitability.. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisition of restaurants and integration of acquired restaurants' operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of additional restaurants will depend in part upon whether we can integrate any acquired restaurants in an efficient and effective manner. We may not accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. If management is unable to successfully integrate acquired restaurants, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized.. In our evaluation of our recent and potential acquisitions, assumptions are made as to our ability to increase sales as well as improve restaurant-level profitability particularly in the areas of food, labor and cash controls as well as other operating expenses. If we are not able to make such improvements in these operational areas as planned, the acquired restaurants' targeted profitability levels will be affected which could cause an adverse effect on our overall financial results and financial condition.. 16. We could be adversely affected by food-borne illnesses, as well as widespread negative publicity regarding food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns.. Negative publicity about food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns (including health implications of obesity) or similar issues stemming from one restaurant or a number of restaurants could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether they pertain to our own restaurants, other Burger King restaurants, or to restaurants owned or operated by other companies. For example, health concerns about the consumption of beef, chicken or eggs or by specific events such as the outbreak of \"mad cow\" disease could lead to changes in consumer preferences, reduce consumption of our products and adversely affect our financial performance. These events could also reduce available supply or significantly raise the price of beef, chicken or eggs.. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our operational controls and employee training will be effective in preventing food-borne illnesses, food tampering and other food safety issues that may affect our restaurants. Food-borne illness or food tampering incidents could be caused by customers, employees or food suppliers and transporters and, therefore, could be outside of our control. Any publicity relating to health concerns or the perceived or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or other food safety issues attributed to one or more of our restaurants, could result in a significant decrease in guest traffic in all of our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, similar publicity or occurrences with respect to other restaurants or restaurant chains could also decrease our guest traffic and have a similar material adverse effect on our business.. We may incur significant liability or reputational harm if claims are brought against us or the Burger King brand.. We may be subject to complaints, regulatory proceedings or litigation from guests or other persons alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered in our premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns, including environmental claims. In addition, in recent years a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break, meal break and overtime compensation issues and, in the case of quick service restaurants, alleging that they have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high fat or high sodium foods and that their marketing practices have encouraged obesity. We may also be subject to litigation or other actions initiated by governmental authorities or our employees, among others, based upon these and other matters. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations or occurrences or alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one or a number of our locations could adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are true, or whether we are ultimately held liable. Any cases filed against us could materially adversely affect us if we lose such cases and have to pay substantial damages or if we settle such cases. In addition, any such cases may materially and adversely affect our operations by increasing our litigation costs and diverting our attention and resources to address such actions. In addition, if a claim is successful, our insurance coverage may not cover or be adequate to cover all liabilities or losses and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we suffer losses, liabilities or loss of income in excess of our insurance coverage or if our insurance does not cover such loss, liability or loss of income, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 17. Changes in consumer taste could negatively impact our business.. We obtain a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of hamburgers and various types of sandwiches. If consumer preferences for these types of foods change, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The quick-service restaurant segment is characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, often supported by substantial promotional campaigns, and is subject to changing consumer preferences, tastes, and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends on BKC's ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and dining and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. BKC may be forced to make changes to our menu items in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns, and we may lose customers who do not prefer the new menu items. In recent years, numerous companies in the quick-service restaurant segments have introduced products positioned to capitalize on the growing consumer preference for food products that are, or are perceived to be, promoting good health, nutritious, low in calories and low in fat content. If BKC does not continually develop and successfully introduce new menu offerings that appeal to changing consumer preferences or if the Burger King system does not timely capitalize on new products, our operating results could suffer. In addition, any significant event that adversely affects consumption of our products, such as cost, changing tastes or health concerns, could adversely affect our financial performance.. If a significant disruption in service or supply by any of our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our financial performance depends on our continuing ability to offer fresh, quality food at competitive prices. If a significant disruption in service or supply by our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are a member of a national purchasing cooperative, Restaurant Services, Inc., which serves as the purchasing agent for approved distributors to the Burger King system. We are required to purchase all of our food products, paper goods and packaging materials from BKC-approved suppliers. We currently utilize mostly three distributors for our restaurants, Maines Paper & Food Service, Inc., Reinhart Food Service L.L.C., and MBM Food Service Inc. , to supply our restaurants in various geographical areas. As of December 31, 2017, such distributors supplied 42%, 29%, and 29% , respectively of our restaurants. Although we believe that we have alternative sources of supply, in the event any distributors or suppliers are unable to service us, this could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor or supplier is engaged, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. If labor costs increase, we may not be able to make a corresponding increase in our prices and our operating results may be adversely affected.. Wage rates for a number of our employees are either at or slightly above the federal and or state minimum wage rates. As federal and/or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates which are above the minimum wage, which will increase our costs. The extent to which we are not able to raise our prices to compensate for increases in wage rates, including increases in state unemployment insurance costs or other costs including mandated health insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, even if minimum wage rates do not increase, we may still be required to raise wage rates in order to compete for an adequate supply of labor for our restaurants.. Higher labor costs due to statutory and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We are subject to the federal labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as various state and local laws governing such matters as minimum wages, labor relations, workplace safety, citizenship requirements and other working conditions for employees.  Federal, state and local laws may also require us to provide paid and unpaid leave, healthcare, or other benefits to our employees. Changes in the law, or penalties associated with any failure on our part to comply with legal requirements, could increase our labor costs or result in additional expense.. Starting in 2018, certain workers will be able to take up to eight weeks (increasing in New York and other areas to twelve weeks in 2021) of employer-provided paid leave for childbirth, care for a seriously ill family member or needs related to a family member's military deployment. These additional expenses may cause us to raise our prices.. 18. In certain geographic areas which cannot absorb such increases, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition; results of operations and/or cash flows.  We provide unpaid leave for employees for covered family and medical reasons, including childbirth, to the extent required by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable state laws. To the extent we need to hire additional employees or pay overtime for such employees on leave, this would be an added expense which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Increases in income tax rates in the United States or other changes in income tax laws in any particular jurisdiction could reduce our after-tax income from such jurisdiction and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  The United States recently made changes to existing tax laws in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The changes in the Act are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact it may have on our business and financial results. Among its many provisions, the Act reduced the U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposed limitations on the deductibility of interest and certain other corporate deductions. In accordance with applicable SEC guidance, we recorded a provisional net tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2017 resulting from the enactment of the Act. This provisional expense is subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted the Act.  Additional changes in the U.S. tax regime, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The efficiency and quality of our competitors' advertising and promotional programs and the extent and cost of our advertising could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The success of our restaurants depends in part upon the effectiveness of the advertising campaigns and promotions by BKC. If our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, or the cost of television or radio advertising increases, or BKC's or our advertising and promotions are less effective than our competitors', there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is regional and we therefore face risks related to reliance on certain markets as well as risks for other unforeseen events.. At December 31, 2017, 19% of our restaurants were located in North Carolina, 16% were located in New York, and 32% were located in Indiana, Ohio and Michigan. Therefore, the economic conditions, state and local government regulations, weather conditions or other conditions affecting New York, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, and North Carolina and other unforeseen events, including terrorism and other international conflicts may have a material impact on the success of our restaurants in those locations.. Many of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions such as harsh winter weather. As a result, adverse weather conditions in any of these areas could damage these restaurants, result in fewer guest visits to these restaurants and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business.. We cannot assure you that the current locations of our restaurants will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations will be acquired at reasonable costs.. The location of our restaurants has significant influence on their success. We cannot assure you that current locations will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations can be acquired at reasonable costs. In addition, the economic environment where restaurants are located could decline in the future, which could result in reduced sales for those locations. We cannot assure you that new sites will be profitable or as profitable as existing sites.. Economic downturns may adversely impact consumer spending patterns.. The U.S. economy has in the past experienced significant slowdown and volatility due to uncertainties related to availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, softness in the housing market,. 19. diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and high unemployment rates. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly those that affect our guests that frequently patronize our restaurants. In particular, where our customers' disposable income is reduced (such as by job losses, credit constraints and higher housing, tax, energy, interest or other costs) or where the perceived wealth of customers has decreased (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), our restaurants have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, lower sales and customer traffic as customers choose lower-cost alternatives or other alternatives to dining out. The resulting decrease in our customer traffic or average sales per transaction has had an adverse effect in the past, and could in the future have a material adverse effect, on our business.. The loss of the services of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management who have substantial experience in the restaurant industry.  We believe that it could be difficult to replace our senior management with individuals having comparable experience.  Consequently, the loss of the services of members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Government regulation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the development and operation of restaurants, including regulations relating to the following:. • zoning;. • requirements relating to labeling of caloric and other nutritional information on menu boards, advertising and food packaging;. • the preparation and sale of food;. • employer/employee relationships, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, mandatory paid and unpaid leave, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements;. • health care; and. • federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating design and operation of, and access to, facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.. In the event that legislation having a negative impact on our business is adopted, it could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, substantial increases in the minimum wage or state or Federal unemployment taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Local zoning or building codes or regulations can cause substantial delays in our ability to build and open new restaurants. Any failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits and approvals could also adversely affect our operating results.. Federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials could expose us to liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous substances or other regulated materials, release of pollutants into the air, soil and water, and the remediation of contaminated sites.. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the imposition of fines or penalties, restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts of law, as well as investigatory or remedial liabilities and claims for alleged personal injury or damages to property or natural resources. Some environmental laws impose strict, and under some circumstances joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and remediation of contaminated sites on current and prior owners or operators of the sites, as well as those entities that send regulated materials to the sites. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. Therefore, our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing property subject to long-term non-cancelable leases.. 20. The leases for our restaurant locations (except for certain acquired restaurants which have an underlying lease term of less than 20 years) generally have initial terms of 20 years, and typically provide for renewal options in five year increments as well as for rent escalations. Generally, our leases are \"net\" leases, which require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities.  Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be obligated to perform our monetary obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying all amounts due for the balance of the lease term.  In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations.. An increase in food costs could adversely affect our operating results.. Our profitability and operating margins are dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Changes in the price or availability of certain food products could affect our ability to offer broad menu and price offerings to guests and could materially adversely affect our profitability and reputation. The type, variety, quality and price of beef, chicken,  produce and cheese can be subject to change and to factors beyond our control, including weather, governmental regulation, availability and seasonality, each of which may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. Our food distributors or suppliers may also be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Although RSI is able to contract for certain food commodities for periods up to one year, the pricing and availability of some commodities used in our operations are not locked in for periods of longer than one week or at all. We do not currently use financial instruments to hedge our risk to market fluctuations in the price of beef, produce and other food products. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through menu price adjustments in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Security breaches of confidential guest information in connection with our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions may adversely affect our business.. A significant amount of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers was compromised. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our guests' credit or debit card information. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, may have a material adverse effect on us and our restaurants.. We depend on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business.. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, procurement and payment to significant suppliers, collection of cash, and payment of other financial obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems.. Carrols is currently a guarantor under 27 Fiesta Restaurant Group, Inc. (\"Fiesta\") restaurant property leases and the primary lessee on five Fiesta restaurant property leases, and any default under such property leases by Fiesta may result in substantial liabilities to us.. Fiesta, a former wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was spun-off in 2012 to the Company's stockholders. Carrols currently is a guarantor under 27 Fiesta restaurant property leases. The Separation and Distribution Agreement, which we refer to as the \"separation agreement\", dated as of April 24, 2012 and entered into in connection with the spin-off among Carrols, Fiesta and us provides that the parties will cooperate and use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the release of such guarantees. Unless and until any such guarantees are released, Fiesta agrees to indemnify Carrols for any losses or liabilities or expenses that it may incur arising from or in connection with any such lease guarantees.. 21. Carrols is currently a primary lessee of five Fiesta restaurants which it subleases to Fiesta. The separation agreement provides that the parties will cooperate and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause Fiesta or a subsidiary of Fiesta to enter into a new master lease or individual leases with the lessor with respect to the Fiesta restaurants where Carrols is currently a lessee. The separation agreement provides that until such new master lease or such individual leases are entered into, (i) Carrols will perform its obligations under the master lease for the five Fiesta restaurants where it is a lessee and (ii) the parties will cooperate and use their commercially reasonable efforts to enter into a non-disturbance agreement or similar agreement with the lessor which shall provide that Fiesta or one of its subsidiaries shall become the lessee under such master lease with respect to such Fiesta restaurants and perform Carrols' obligations under such master lease in the event of a breach or default by Carrols.. Such guarantees may never be released and a new master lease with respect to the five Fiesta properties where Carrols is the primary lessee may never be entered into by Fiesta. Any losses or liabilities that may arise in connection such guarantees or the master lease where Carrols is not able to receive indemnification from Fiesta may result in substantial liabilities to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The fluctuations could cause a loss of all or part of an investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the trading price of our common stock may include, but are not limited to the following:. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of companies generally or restaurant companies;. • actual or anticipated variations in the earnings or operating results of our company or our competitors;. • actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;. • market conditions or trends in our industry and the economy as a whole;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures and our ability to complete any such transaction;. • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;. • capital commitments;. • changes in accounting principles;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • sales of our common stock, including sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales by our directors and officers; and. • events that affect BKC.. In addition, if the market for restaurant company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry or related industries even if these events do not directly affect us.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action securities litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and. 22. divert management's attention and resources from our business, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation.. The concentrated ownership of our capital stock by insiders will likely limit our stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. Our executive officers, directors and BKC together beneficially own approximately 25.1% of our outstanding common stock as of March 5, 2018 (assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock held by BKC). Due to the issuance of Series A Preferred Stock to BKC in connection with our 2012 acquisition, BKC beneficially owns approximately 20.5% of our common stock as of March 5, 2018 (assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock). Our executive officers and directors (excluding directors affiliated with BKC) together beneficially own approximately 5.8% of our common stock outstanding as of March 5, 2018 (excluding conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock). As a result, our executive officers, directors and BKC, if they act as a group, will be able to significantly influence matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and acquisitions. The directors will have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt and the declaration of dividends. BKC may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately depress the market price of our common stock.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and the indenture governing the Notes and the senior credit facility limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The absence of a dividend on our common stock may increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock or make it more likely that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the event of adverse economic conditions or adverse developments affecting our company.  Additionally, the indenture governing the Notes and our  senior credit facility limit, and the debt instruments that we may enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We cannot assure you that these analysts will publish research or reports about us or that any analysts that do so will not discontinue publishing research or reports about us in the future. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If analysts do not publish reports about us or if one or more analysts cease coverage of our stock, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Delaware corporate law and our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions:. • require that special meetings of our stockholders be called only by our board of directors or certain of our officers, thus prohibiting our stockholders from calling special meetings;. • deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors;. 23. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board could issue to dilute the voting and economic rights of our common stock and to discourage a takeover attempt;. • provide that approval of our board of directors or a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws and that approval of a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to amend, alter or change certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation;. • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. • divide our board into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered 3-year term, which generally increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors;. • provide that directors only may be removed for cause by a majority of the board or by a supermajority of our stockholders; and. • require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $281.9 million of total indebtedness outstanding consisting of $275.0 million of Notes,  $1.2 million of lease financing obligations and $5.7 million of capital leases and other debt. At December 31, 2017, we had $60.2 million of borrowing availability under our senior credit facility (after reserving $12.8 million for letters of credit issued under our senior credit facility, which included amounts for anticipated claims from our renewals of workers' compensation and other insurance policies), which would effectively rank senior to the Notes.   On January 13, 2017, we entered into an amendment to our senior credit facility to increase revolving credit borrowings to $73 million (including $20.0 million available for letters of credit).. As a result of our substantial indebtedness, a significant portion of our operating cash flow will be required to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available under our senior credit facility, to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders.  For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and related interest, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • restrict our ability to acquire additional restaurants;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes.. We expect to use cash flow from operations, our cash balances and revolving credit borrowings under our senior credit facility to meet our current and future financial obligations, including funding our operations, debt service, possible future acquisitions and capital expenditures (including restaurant remodeling and new restaurant development). Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and restaurant acquisitions, sell assets, obtain additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion. 24. of our debt, including our senior credit facility and the Notes, on or before maturity.  We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all.  In addition, the terms of existing or future indebtedness, including the agreements for our senior credit facility, may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives.. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may still be able to incur more debt or make certain restricted payments, which could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including debt that may be secured on a first lien basis or pari passu with the Notes. Although our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions. In addition, if we are able to designate some of our restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the Notes as unrestricted subsidiaries, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture governing the Notes and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. We could also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions, which may increase our indebtedness. Moreover, although our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictions on our ability to make restricted payments, including the declaration and payment of dividends, we are able to make such restricted payments under certain circumstances. Adding new debt to current debt levels or making restricted payments could intensify the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face.. The agreements governing our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in some business and financial transactions and contain certain other restrictive terms.. Our debt agreements, such as the indenture governing the Notes and our senior credit facility, restrict our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • pay dividends and make other distributions on, redeem or repurchase, capital stock;. • make investments or other restricted payments;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • engage in sale and leaseback transactions;. • sell all, or substantially all, of our assets;. • create liens on assets to secure debt; or. • effect a consolidation or merger.. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively.  In addition, our senior credit facility required us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial tests. At December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with such covenants under our senior credit facility.  Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these tests.. A breach of any of these covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. In addition, in the event that the Notes become immediately due and payable, the holders of the Notes would not be entitled to receive any payment in respect of the Notes until all of our senior debt has been paid in full.. We may not have the funds necessary to satisfy all of our obligations under our senior credit facility, the Notes or other indebtedness in connection with certain change of control events.. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, the indenture governing the Notes requires us to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest (and additional interest, if any) to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds, or the ability to raise sufficient funds, at the time of the change of control to make the required. 25. repurchase of the Notes. In addition, restrictions under our senior credit facility may not allow us to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control. If we could not refinance such debt or otherwise obtain a waiver from the holders of such debt, we would be prohibited from repurchasing the Notes, which would constitute an event of default under the indenture. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a \"Change of Control\" under the indenture.. In addition, our senior credit facility provides that certain change of control events constitute an event of default under such senior credit facility. Such an event of default entitles the lenders thereunder to, among other things, cause all outstanding debt obligations under the senior credit facility to become due and payable and to proceed against the collateral securing such senior credit facility. Any event of default or acceleration of the senior credit facility will likely also cause a default under the terms of our other indebtedness."
