[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC in evaluating our business.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact our business operations.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our operating results may be affected.. The loss of one or more of our major wholesale customers could result in a material loss of revenues.. We derived approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales from our top seven wholesale customers for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. We do not enter into long-term sales contracts with our major wholesale customers, relying instead on product performance, long-standing relationships, and our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that one or more of these or other customers may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationship with us as a result of competitive forces, consolidation, reorganization, financial difficulties (including bankruptcy or insolvency), or other reasons, which could result in significant levels of excess inventory, a material decrease in our sales, or material impact on our operating results.. Financial difficulties for our major customers or licensees could have a significant impact on us.. A large percentage of our gross accounts receivable are typically from our largest wholesale customers. For example, 71% of our gross accounts receivable at December 30, 2017 were from our ten largest wholesale customers, with two of these customers having individual receivable balances in excess of 10% of our total accounts receivable. Our reserves for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make payments may prove not to be sufficient if any one or more of our customers are unable to meet outstanding obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our operating results.  If the financial condition or credit position of one or more of our customers or licensees were to deteriorate, or such customer or licensee fails, or is unable to pay the amounts owed to us in a timely manner, this could have a significant adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. The acceptance of our products in the marketplace is affected by consumer tastes and preferences, along with fashion trends.. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to provide a compelling value proposition for our consumers in all of our distribution channels. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline, or that we will be able to successfully and timely evaluate and adapt our products to changes in consumer tastes and preferences or fashion trends.  If demand for our products declines, promotional pricing may be required to move seasonal merchandise, and our gross margins and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The value of our brands, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity, including through actions by our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees, over whom we have limited control.. Although we maintain policies with our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees that promote ethical business practices, and our employees, agents, and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of these entities, we do not control our vendors, independent manufacturers, or licensees, or their practices. A violation of our vendor policies, licensee agreements, health and safety standards, labor laws, anti-bribery laws, or other policies or laws by these vendors, independent manufacturers, or licensees could damage the image and reputation of our brands and could subject us to liability. As a result, negative publicity regarding us or our brands or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Further, while we take steps to ensure the reputations of our brands are maintained through license and vendor agreements, there can be no guarantee that our brand image will not be negatively affected through its association with products or actions of our licensees or vendors.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand, weaken our competitive position, and adversely affect our results.. We currently rely on a combination of trademark, unfair competition, and copyright laws, as well as licensing and vendor arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps taken by us or by our licensees and vendors to. 9. protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent either the counterfeit production of our products or the infringement of our trademarks or proprietary rights by others. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights and where third parties may have rights to conflicting marks, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in those countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. Further, third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business geographically, and any such claim could be expensive and time consuming to defend, regardless of its merit. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may experience delays, product recalls, or loss of revenues if our products do not meet regulatory requirements.. Our products, including our apparel and accessories, are subject to regulations and standards set by various governmental authorities around the world, including in the United States, Canada, China, Mexico, and the European Union. These regulations and standards include rules relating to product quality and safety, and may change from time to time. Our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Issues with respect to the compliance of merchandise we sell with these regulations and standards, regardless of our culpability, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs.. We have limited control over our vendors and we may experience delays, product recalls, or loss of revenues if our products do not meet our quality standards.. Because we do not control our vendors, our vendors may not continue to provide products that are consistent with our standards. We receive from time to time shipments of product that fail to conform to our quality control standards. A failure in our quality control program may result in diminished product quality, which in turn may result in increased order cancellations and returns, decreased consumer demand for our products, or product recalls, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, products that fail to meet our standards, or other unauthorized products, could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge. This could materially harm our brand and our reputation in the marketplace.. We are subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits, including as a result of investigations or other proceedings related to previously disclosed investigations, and as a result, may incur substantial costs that adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. As previously reported, in 2009 the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's Office began conducting investigations, with which the Company cooperated, related to customer margin support provided by the Company, including undisclosed margin support commitments and related matters. In December 2010, the Company and the SEC entered into a non-prosecution agreement pursuant to which the SEC agreed not to charge the Company with any violations of federal securities laws, commence any enforcement action against the Company, or require the Company to pay any financial penalties in connection with the SEC investigation of customer margin support provided by the Company, conditioned upon the Company's continued cooperation with the SEC's investigation and with any related proceedings. The Company has incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial expenses for legal services due to the SEC and U.S. Attorney's Office investigations and any related proceedings. These matters may continue to divert management's time and attention away from operations. The Company also expects to bear additional costs pursuant to its advancement and indemnification obligations to directors and officers under the terms of our organizational documents in connection with proceedings related to these matters. Our insurance may not provide coverage to offset all of the costs incurred in connection with these proceedings.. In addition, we are subject to various other claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the course of our business, including claims that our designs infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are also affected by trends in litigation, including class action litigation brought under various laws, including consumer protection, employment, and privacy and information security laws. In addition, litigation risks related to claims that technologies we use infringe intellectual property rights of third parties have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose primary business is to assert such claims. Reserves are established based on our best estimates of our potential liability. However, we cannot accurately predict the. 10. ultimate outcome of any such proceedings due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation. Regardless of the outcome or whether the claims are meritorious, legal and regulatory proceedings may require that management devote substantial time and expense to defend the Company. In the event we are required or determine to pay amounts in connection with any such lawsuits, such amounts could exceed any applicable insurance coverage or contractual rights available to us. As a result, such lawsuits could be significant and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our and our vendors' systems containing personal information and payment card data of our retail store and eCommerce customers, employees and other third parties could be breached, which could subject us to adverse publicity, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation, and expenses.. We rely on the security of our networks, databases, systems, and processes and, in certain circumstances, those of third parties,  to protect our proprietary information and information about our customers, employees, and vendors.  Criminals are constantly devising schemes to circumvent information technology security safeguards and other retailers have recently suffered serious data security breaches.  If unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, or those of our vendors, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, or modify our private and sensitive internal and third-party information, including credit card information and personal identification information. In addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data or security breaches that result in unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers, other parties, or employees as well as be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy law or failing to adequately protect such information. This could result in costly investigations and litigation exceeding applicable insurance coverage or contractual rights available to us, civil or criminal penalties, operational changes, or other response measures, loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, and negative publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards, established by banks and the payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our retail operations.. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins, including deflationary pressures on our selling price and increases in production costs.. The apparel industry is subject to pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, the promotional retail environment, and changes in consumer demand. The demand for baby and young children's apparel and accessories in particular may also be subject to other external factors, such as birth rates, and the costs related to manufacturing, cotton, labor, fuel, importation, and transportation. If external pressures cause us to reduce our sales prices and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability could decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition.. Our business is sensitive to overall levels of consumer spending, particularly in the young children apparel market.. Consumer demand for young children apparel, specifically brand name apparel products, is affected by the overall level of consumer spending. Discretionary consumer spending is affected by a number of factors such as the uncertainty in the political climate, overall economy, employment levels, weather, gasoline and utility costs, business conditions, foreign currency exchange rates, availability of consumer credit, tax rates, the availability of tax credits, interest rates, levels of consumer indebtedness, and overall levels of consumer confidence. Reductions, or lower-than-expected growth, in the level of discretionary or overall consumer spending may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.. Our revenues, product costs, and other expenses are subject to foreign economic and currency risks due to our operations outside of the United States.. We have operations in Canada, Mexico, the European Union, and Asia and our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees are located around the world.  The value of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies has seen significant volatility in recent years. While our business is primarily conducted in U.S. dollars, we source substantially all of our production from Asia, and we generate significant revenues in Canada. Cost increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of our independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials or products more expensive and more difficult to finance.  Additionally, fluctuations in exchange rates impact the amount of our reported sales and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 11. We source substantially all of our products through foreign production arrangements. Our dependence on foreign supply sources are subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We source substantially all of our products through a network of vendors primarily in Asia, principally coordinated by our Hong Kong sourcing office. Our foreign supply chain could be negatively affected due to a number of factors, including:. • financial instability, including bankruptcy or insolvency, of one or more of our major vendors;. • the imposition of new regulations relating to imports, duties, taxes, and other charges on imports;. • political instability or other global events resulting in the disruption of trade in foreign countries from which we source our products;. • interruptions in the supply of raw materials, including cotton, fabric, and trim items;. • increases in the cost of labor in our sourcing locations;. • the occurrence of a natural disaster, unusual weather conditions, or a disease epidemic in foreign countries from which we source our products;. • changes in the U.S. customs procedures concerning the importation of apparel products;. • unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods;. • disruptions in the global transportation network, such as a port strike, work stoppages or other labor unrest, capacity withholding, world trade restrictions, acts of terrorism, or war;. • the application of adverse foreign intellectual property laws;. • the ability of our vendors to secure sufficient credit to finance the manufacturing process, including the acquisition of raw materials;. • potential social compliance concerns resulting from our use of international vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees, over whom we have limited control;. • manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for products may require the use of faster, but more expensive, transportation methods, such as air-freight services;. • the use of \"conflict minerals\" sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its surrounding countries in our products; and. • other events beyond our control that could interrupt our supply chain and delay receipt of our products into the United States.. The occurrence of one or more of these events could result in disruptions to our operations, which in turn could increase our cost of goods sold, decrease our gross profit, or impact our ability to get products to our customers.. A small number of vendors supply a significant amount of our products, and losing one or more of these vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In fiscal 2017, we purchased approximately 60% of our products from ten vendors, of which approximately half comes from three vendors.  We expect that we will continue to source a significant portion of our products from these vendors.  We do not have agreements with our major vendors that would provide us with assurances on a long-term basis as to adequate supply or pricing of our products.  If any of our major vendors decide to discontinue or significantly decrease the volume of products they manufacture for us, raise prices on products we purchase from them, or become unable to perform their responsibilities (e.g., if. 12. our vendors experience financial difficulties, lack of capacity or significant labor disputes) our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Labor or other disruptions along our supply chain may adversely affect our relationships with customers, reputation with consumers, and results of operations.. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner.  Labor disputes at independent factories where our goods are produced, the shipping ports we use, or our transportation carriers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak manufacturing and importing times.  For example, we source a significant portion of our products through a single port on the west coast of the United States.  Work slowdowns and stoppages relating to labor agreement negotiations involving the operators of our west coast port and unions have in the past resulted in a significant backlog of cargo containers.  The insolvency of major shipping companies have also had an impact on our supply chain. As a result, we have in the past experienced delays in the shipment of our products.  In the event that these slow-downs, disruptions or strikes occur in the future in connection with labor agreement negotiations or otherwise, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our inability to effectively source inventory directly could negatively impact our ability to timely deliver our inventory supply and disrupt our business, which may adversely affect our operating results.. We source a significant amount of inventory directly and plan to continue to further increase such amounts.  If we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, for any new vendors, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in producing our products and adhering to our quality control standards. Moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. Any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Profitability and our reputation and relationships could be negatively affected if we do not adequately forecast the demand for our products and, as a result, create significant levels of excess inventory or insufficient levels of inventory.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and product trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not successfully manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet the demand. Inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on the image and reputation of our brands and negatively impact profitability. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our manufacturing facilities or third-party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image, as well as our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of market share and, as a result, a decrease in revenue and gross profit.. The baby and young children apparel market is very competitive, and includes both branded and private label manufacturers. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with many other manufacturers and retailers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, and adopt more aggressive pricing strategies than we can.. We expect to make significant capital investments and have significant expenses related to our multi-channel sales strategy and failure to execute our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and how we meet consumer expectations.. 13. We distribute our products through multiple channels in the children's apparel market, which, as of December 30, 2017, included approximately 830 stores in the United States, 179 stores in Canada, 41 stores in Mexico, 17,000 wholesale locations (including department stores, national chain stores, specialty stores and discount retailers), eCommerce sites in the United States, Canada, and China (including www.carters.com), as well as our other international wholesale, licensing, and online channels. Our multi-channel strategy allows our customers to shop across all sales channels globally, and allows us to meet changing customer experience expectations.. This strategy has and will continue to require significant investment in cross-functional operations and management focus, along with investment in supporting technologies. Multi-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must anticipate and meet changing customer expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors. Our multi-channel retailing strategy includes implementing new technology, software, and processes to be able to fulfill customer orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet customer expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. If we are unable to attract and retain employees or contract with third-parties having the specialized skills needed to support our multi-channel efforts, implement improvements to our customer-facing technology in a timely manner, allow real-time and accurate visibility to product availability when customers are ready to purchase, quickly and efficiently fulfill our customers' orders using the fulfillment and payment methods they demand, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our retail eCommerce sites or our other customer-facing technology systems do not appeal to our customers, reliably function as designed, or maintain the privacy of customer data, or if we are unable to consistently meet our brand promise to our customers, we may experience a loss of customer confidence or lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.. Our retail success and future growth is dependent upon identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores.. A significant portion of our revenues are through our retail stores in leased retail locations across the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Successful operation of a retail store depends, in part, on the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable. If we are unable to identify new retail locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level, our retail growth may be limited. Further, if existing stores do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume or we are unable to negotiate appropriate lease terms for the retail stores, there could be a material adverse impact on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations.  In addition, if consumer shopping preferences transition more from brick-and-mortar stores to online retail experiences, any increase we may see in our eCommerce sales may not be sufficient to offset the decreases in sales from our brick-and-mortar stores.. We also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases on acceptable terms. In addition, from time to time, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. Failure to renew existing store leases, secure adequate new locations, or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the United States and internationally. This could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our eCommerce business faces distinct risks, and our failure to successfully manage it could have a negative impact on our profitability.. The successful operation of our eCommerce business as well as our ability to provide a positive shopping experience that will generate orders and drive subsequent visits depends on efficient and uninterrupted operation of our order-taking and fulfillment operations. Risks associated with our eCommerce business include:. • the failure of the computer systems, including those of third-party vendors, that operate our eCommerce sites including, among others, inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems;. 14. • disruptions in telecom services or power outages;. • reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software, as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers;. • rapid technology changes;. • credit or debit card fraud;. • the diversion of sales from our physical stores;. • natural disasters or adverse weather conditions;. • changes in applicable federal, state and international regulations;. • liability for online content; and. • consumer privacy concerns and regulation.. Problems in any of these areas could result in a reduction in sales, increased costs and damage to our reputation and brands, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into international markets.. We cannot be sure that we can successfully complete any planned international expansion or that new international business will be profitable or meet our expectations.  We do not have significant experience operating in markets outside of the United States and Canada. Consumer demand, behavior, tastes, and purchasing trends may differ in international markets and, as a result, sales of our products may not be successful or meet our expectations, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. We may encounter differences in business culture and the legal environment that may make working with commercial partners and hiring and retaining an adequate employee base more challenging. We may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations with our current operations. Significant changes to foreign relations, such as the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, may also hinder our success in new markets. Our entry into new markets may have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance and such costs may be greater than expected.  If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our results could be materially adversely affected.. We may not achieve sales growth plans, cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of our intangible assets.. The carrying values of our goodwill and tradename assets are subject to annual impairment reviews as of the last day of each fiscal year or more frequently, if deemed necessary, due to any significant events or changes in circumstances. Estimated future cash flows used in these impairment reviews could be negatively affected if we do not achieve our sales plans, planned cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of these intangible assets, which could result in impairment of the remaining asset values. Any material impairment would adversely affect our results of operations.. We have substantial debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.. As of December 30, 2017, we had $621.0 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding (excluding $4.5 million of outstanding letters of credit), and $524.5 million of undrawn availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility after giving effect to $4.5 million of letters of credit issued under our senior secured revolving credit facility. As a result, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, or general corporate or other purposes may be limited, and we may be unable to renew or refinance our debt on terms as favorable as our existing debt or at all.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other cash requirements, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled. 15. debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.. In addition, both our senior secured revolving credit facility and indenture governing the senior notes contain restrictive covenants that, subject to specified exemptions, restrict our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make certain investments (including business acquisitions), pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, engage in mergers, dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions, and raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due.  These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests, and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash from operations, borrowing capacity under our debt documents, or the ability to raise additional funds in the capital markets to pursue our growth strategies as a result of these restrictions or otherwise.  We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility.. Our success is dependent upon retaining key individuals within the organization to execute our strategic plan.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified executive management, marketing, merchandising, design, sourcing, operations, and support function staffing is key to our success. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals in these areas, this may result in an adverse impact on our growth and results of operations. Our inability to retain personnel could cause us to experience business disruption due to a loss of historical knowledge and a lack of business continuity and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our failure to properly manage strategic initiatives in order to achieve our objectives may negatively impact our business.. The implementation of our business strategy periodically involves the execution of complex initiatives, such as acquisitions, which may require that we make significant estimates and assumptions about a project, and these projects could place significant demands on our accounting, financial, information, and other systems, and on our business overall. In addition, we are dependent on our management ability to oversee these projects effectively and implement them successfully. If our estimates and assumptions about a project are incorrect, or if we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project or fail to implement a project effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. We may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses and such acquisitions may fail to achieve the financial results we expected.. From time to time we may acquire other businesses as part of our growth strategy, such as our recent acquisitions of the Skip Hop brand and our Mexican licensee, and we may partially or fully fund such acquisitions by taking on additional debt. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire and such acquisitions may fail to achieve the financial results we expected. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations, particularly larger acquisitions, involves numerous risks, including diversion of our management attention, failure to retain key personnel, and failure of the acquired business to be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws, including those relating to product safety or anti-bribery and anti-corruption. We may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Also, depending on the location of the acquired business, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations that may differ from those of the jurisdictions in which our operations are currently conducted. Our inability to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, or if such businesses do not achieve the financial results we expect, may increase our costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to implement new information technology systems or needed upgrades to our systems, including operational and financial systems, could adversely affect our business.. As our business has grown in size, complexity, and geography, we have enhanced and upgraded our information technology infrastructure and we expect there to be a regular need for additional enhancements and upgrades as we continue to grow. Failure to implement new systems or upgrade systems, including operation and financial systems, as needed or complications encountered in implementing new systems or upgrading existing systems could cause disruptions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, additional investments needed to upgrade and expand our information technology infrastructure may require significant investment of additional resources and capital, which may not always be available or available on favorable terms.. 16. Our Braselton, Georgia distribution facility handles a large portion of our merchandise distribution. If we encounter problems with this facility, our ability to deliver our products to the market could be adversely affected.. We handle a large portion of our merchandise distribution for our U.S. stores and our eCommerce operations from our facility in Braselton, Georgia. Our ability to meet consumer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on proper operation of this facility. If we are not able to distribute merchandise to our stores or customers because we have exceeded our capacity at the distribution facility (such as due to a high level of demand during peak periods) or because of natural disasters, accidents, system failures, disruptions, or other events, our sales could decline, which may have a materially adverse effect on our earnings, financial position, and our reputation. In addition, we use an automated system that manages the order processing for our eCommerce business. In the event that this system becomes inoperable for any reason, we may be unable to ship orders in a timely manner, and as a result, we could experience a reduction in our direct-to-consumer business, which could negatively impact our sales and profitability.. Our business could suffer a material adverse effect from extreme or unseasonable weather conditions.. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions, which could influence customer trends, consumer traffic, and shopping habits. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool temperatures during the summer season could reduce demand and thereby would have an adverse effect on our operational results, financial position, and cash flows. In addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business, operational results, financial position, and cash flows. Frequent or unusually heavy or intense snowfall, ice storms, floods, hurricanes, or other extreme weather conditions over an extended period could cause our stores to close for a period of time or permanently, and could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which in turn could negatively impact our operational results.. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations as well as changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.. We must comply with various laws and regulations, including applicable employment and consumer protection laws. Our policies, procedures, and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws, accounting and reporting requirements, regulations, and tax requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") as well as other laws. Our failure to comply with these various laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition, any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among other things, may increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance. Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors, or agents, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods, or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks.. Our ability to conduct business in new and existing international markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. These include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations (including trade and labor restrictions), unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws, prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws. Our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents, or vendors. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our global operations, including political instability and terrorist attacks, differences in business culture, different laws governing relationships with employees and. 17. business partners, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. We are subject to income taxes in federal and applicable state and local tax jurisdictions in the United States, Canada, Hong Kong, Mexico, and other foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of current and future payments, which include reserves for estimates of uncertain tax positions. At any time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may impact the ultimate settlement of these tax positions. As a result, there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are re-evaluated. Further, our effective tax rate in any financial statement period may be materially affected by changes in the mix and level of earnings.. In December 2017, the U.S. government enacted tax law changes known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Act\").  The 2017 Act significantly effects U.S. taxation for multinational corporations.  The major implementation provisions of the 2017 Act include a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the remeasurement of certain deferred income tax balances.  As permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, we have not completed our accounting for the enactment of the 2017 Act, and certain provisional estimates have been reflected in our income tax expense for fourth quarter and fiscal 2017.  We anticipate that the provisional estimates will be adjusted during fiscal 2018 and any resulting income tax or benefit will be reflected in our income tax expense for the period of adjustment.  Other provisions of the 2017 Act include a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate, certain provisions to broaden the U.S. tax base, imposition of a minimum tax on income earned by foreign subsidiaries, and an incentive to encourage the repatriation of foreign sourced income.  We are currently assessing the additional effects that these changes will have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods.. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States or foreign countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies, treaties between the United States and other countries, and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices.. In addition, during the requisite service period for compensable equity-based compensation awards that we may grant to certain employees and members of our board of directors, we recognize a deferred income tax benefit on the compensation expense we incur for these awards.  At time of subsequent vesting, exercise, forfeiture, or expiration of an award, the difference between our actual income tax deduction, if any, and the previously accrued income tax benefit is recognized in our income tax expense/benefit during the current period and can consequently raise or lower our effective tax rate for the period.  Such differences are largely dependent on changes in the market price for our common stock.. Failure to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.. In 2013, we initiated a quarterly cash dividend.  Future declarations of quarterly cash dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on a number of factors, including our future financial performance and other investment priorities.  Additionally, provisions in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes could have the effect of restricting our ability to pay future cash dividends on, or make future repurchases of, our common stock.  Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. 18"
