[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to the Company's operations which should be carefully reviewed.  These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance.. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We derive our income mainly from the difference or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities.  In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn.  When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate.  This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income.  From an interest rate risk perspective, we have generally been liability sensitive, which indicates that liabilities generally re-price faster than assets.. In response to improving economic conditions, the FRB's Open Market Committee has slowly increased its federal funds rate target from a range of 0.00% - 0.25% that was in effect for several years to the current target range of 1.50% - 1.75% that was in effect at March 31, 2018.  Given our liability sensitivity, our net interest rate spread and net interest margin are at risk of being reduced due to potential increases in our cost of funds that may outpace any increases in our yield on interest-earning assets.. Interest rates also affect how much money we lend.  For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease.  In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and securities.  For example, a reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost.  This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities in a declining rate environment.. Changes in market interest rates also impact the value of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  In particular, the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported, net of taxes, as accumulated other comprehensive income which is a component of stockholders' equity.  Consequently, declines in the fair value of these instruments resulting from changes in market interest rates may adversely affect stockholders' equity.. Our loan portfolio exhibits a high degree of risk.. 26. We have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans that have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans.  Commercial real estate loans amount to $141.8 million, or 29.9% of our loan portfolio at March 31, 2018.  Commercial real estate loans generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at the stated maturity date.  Repayment of commercial real estate loans generally is dependent on income being generated by the rental property or underlying business in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service.  Failure to adequately underwrite and monitor these loans may result in significant losses to Carver Federal.. Failure to comply with the Formal Agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. In May 2016, the Bank entered into a Formal Agreement with the OCC.  The Formal Agreement requires the Bank to reduce its concentration of commercial real estate and requires that the Bank undertake several actions to improve compliance matters and overall profitability.  Failure to comply with the Formal Agreement could result in additional supervisory and enforcement actions against the Bank, its directors, or senior executive officers, including the issuance of a cease and desist order or the imposition of civil money penalties.  The Bank's compliance efforts may have an adverse impact on its non-interest expense and net income.. Carver is subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact the Company's return on equity, or constrain it from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the FDIC and the FRB approved a new rule that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank and the Company.  The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for the Bank and the Company on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios.  The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.  The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%.  The new capital conservation buffer requirement was phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019.  An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount.  These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. There can be no assurance that our regulator will approve payment of our deferred interest on our outstanding trust preferred securities.. Carver is a unitary savings and loan association holding company regulated by the FRB and almost all of its operating assets are owned by Carver Federal. Carver relies primarily on dividends from the Bank to pay cash dividends to its stockholders, to engage in share repurchase programs and to pay principal and interest on its trust preferred debt obligation. The OCC regulates all capital distributions, including dividend payments, by the Bank to the Company, and the FRB regulates dividends paid by the Company. As the subsidiary of a savings and loan association holding company, Carver Federal must file a notice or an application (depending on the proposed dividend amount) with the OCC (and a notice with the FRB) prior to the declaration of each capital distribution. The OCC will disallow any proposed dividend, for among other reasons, that would result in the Bank's failure to meet the OCC minimum capital requirements. In accordance with the Agreement, the Bank is currently prohibited from paying any dividends without prior OCC approval, and, as such, has suspended its regular quarterly cash dividend to the Company. There are no assurances that dividend payments to the Company will resume.. Debenture interest payments on the Carver Statutory Trust I capital securities have been deferred, which is permissible under the terms of the Indenture for up to twenty consecutive quarterly periods, as the Company is prohibited from making payments without prior approval from the Federal Reserve Bank.  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2017, the Company applied for and was granted regulatory approval to settle all outstanding debenture interest payments through September 2016.  Such payments were made in September 2016.  Interest on the debentures beginning with the December 2016 payment have been deferred.. Carver's results of operations may be adversely affected by loan repurchases from U.S. Government Sponsored entities (\"GSE's\").. 27. In connection with the sale of loans, Carver as the loan originator is required to make a variety of representations and warranties regarding the originator and the loans that are being sold.  If a loan does not comply with the representations and warranties, Carver may be obligated to repurchase the loans, and in doing so, incur any loss directly.  Prior to December 31, 2009, the Bank originated and sold loans to the FNMA.  During fiscal years 2012 through 2015, the Bank has been obligated to repurchase 20 loans previously sold to FNMA.  The Bank has not received any repurchase requests for these loans since the second quarter of fiscal year 2015.  There is no assurance that the Bank will not be required to repurchase additional loans in the future.  Accordingly, any repurchase obligations to FNMA could materially and adversely affect the Bank's results of operations and earnings in the future.. Carver's results of operations are affected by economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area.. At March 31, 2018, a significant majority of the Bank's lending portfolio was concentrated in the New York metropolitan area.  As a result of this geographic concentration, Carver's results of operations are largely dependent on economic conditions in this area.  Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans to our borrowers.  Adverse changes in the economy caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Bank's control may also continue to have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely mortgage or business loan payments, which would have an adverse impact on earnings.  Consequently, deterioration in economic conditions in the New York metropolitan area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank's loan portfolio, which could result in increased delinquencies, decreased interest income results as well as an adverse impact on loan loss experience with probable increased allowance for loan losses.  Such deterioration also could adversely impact the demand for products and services, and, accordingly, further negatively affect results of operations.. The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover Carver's actual loan losses.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions.  If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.  Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income.. In addition, the OCC periodically reviews the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs.  A material increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by the regulatory authorities would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. A new accounting standard will likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.  Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Strong competition within the Bank's market areas could adversely affect profits and slow growth.. 28. The New York metropolitan area has a high density of financial institutions, of which many are significantly larger than Carver Federal and with greater financial resources.  Additionally, various large out-of-state financial institutions may continue to enter the New York metropolitan area market.  All are considered competitors to varying degrees.. Carver Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Competition for loans, both locally and in the aggregate, comes principally from mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions.   The Bank also faces competition for deposits from money market mutual funds and other corporate and government securities funds, as well as from other financial intermediaries, such as brokerage firms and insurance companies.  Market area competition is a factor in pricing the Bank's loans and deposits, which could reduce net interest income.  Competition also makes it more challenging to effectively grow loan and deposit balances. The Company's profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas.. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure controls could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, and to operate successfully as a public company.  If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, its reputation and operating results would be harmed.  As part of the Company's ongoing monitoring of internal controls, it may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal controls that require remediation.  A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. The Company continually works on improving its internal controls.  However, the Company cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that it implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting.  Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of the Company's internal and disclosure controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm the Company's reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in the Company's reported financial information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operation and financial condition.. The Company and the Bank operate in a highly regulated industry, which limits the manner and scope of business activities.. Carver Federal is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC, as the Bank's chartering authority and, to a lesser extent, by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits.  The Company is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by the FRB, as regulator of the holding company.  As a result, Carver Federal and the Company are limited in the manner in which Carver Federal and the Company conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors, and not to benefit the Company's stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. In addition, Carver Federal must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called \"golden parachute\" payments.  It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose \"clawback\" policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements.  The legislation also directs the FRB to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory entities, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively.. Restrictions on the Company and the Bank stemming from the Treasury's equity interest in the Company may have a material effect on results of operations.. 29. On January 20, 2009, the Company became a TARP CPP participant by completing the sale of $18.98 million in preferred stock to the Treasury.  As a participant, among other things, the Company must adopt the Treasury's standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under this program.  These standards would generally apply to the Company's CEO, CFO and the three next most highly compensated officers (\"Senior Executive\").  The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for Senior Executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required claw-back of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a Senior Executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each Senior Executive.  In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation would likely increase slightly the overall cost of the Company's compensation programs.  the Company also had to adopt certain monitoring and reporting processes.. On August 27, 2010, the Company redeemed the preferred stock and issued $18.98 million in Series B preferred stock in connection with the Company's changing its participation from TARP CPP to TARP CDCI.  On October 25, 2011 Carver's shareholders approved the conversion of TARP CDCI Series B preferred stock to common stock. On October 28, 2011, the Treasury converted the CDCI Series B preferred stock to Carver common stock.  Under the terms of the agreement between the Treasury and the Company, the Company agreed that so long as the Treasury has an equity interest in the Company, it will continue to be bound by all of the current restrictions and requirements that the Treasury may choose to implement.  The Company is unable to determine the impact that future restrictions and/or requirements resulting from the Treasury's ownership interest may have on the Company's results of operations.. The Company is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity.. Liquidity refers to the Company's ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support its operations and to fulfill its obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay wholesale borrowings and other liabilities, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by its customers.. The Company's primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities, cash flows from the sale of loans and securities, deposits gathered organically through the Bank's branch network, from socially motivated depositors, city and state agencies and deposit brokers  and borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings from the FHLB-NY.  In addition, and depending on current market conditions, the Company has the ability to access the capital markets from time to time.. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, local and national economic conditions and competition for deposits and loans in the markets the Bank serves. Furthermore, changes to the FHLB-NY's underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings may limit or restrict the Bank's ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on liquidity.. A decline in available funding could adversely impact the Bank's ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands.. Carver may not be able to utilize its income tax benefits.. The Company's ability to utilize the deferred tax asset generated by New Markets Tax Credit income tax benefits as well as other deferred tax assets depends on its ability to meet the NMTC compliance requirements and its ability to generate sufficient taxable income from operations in the future.  Since the Bank has not generated sufficient taxable income to utilize tax credits as they were earned, a deferred tax asset has been recorded in the Company's financial statements.  For additional information regarding Carver's NMTC, refer to Item 7, \"Variable Interest Entities.\". The future recognition of Carver's deferred tax asset is highly dependent upon Carver's ability to generate sufficient taxable income.  A valuation allowance is required to be maintained for any deferred tax assets that we estimate are more likely than not to be unrealizable, based on available evidence at the time the estimate is made.  In assessing Carver's need for a valuation allowance, we rely upon estimates of future taxable income.  Although we use the best available information to estimate future taxable income, underlying estimates and assumptions can change over time as a result of unanticipated events or circumstances influencing our projections.  Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, statutory  rates, and future taxable income levels.  The Company determined that it would not be able to realize all of its net deferred tax assets in the future, as such a charge to income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was made.  Conversely, if  the. 30. Company were to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, the Company would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through a decrease in income tax expense in the period in which that determination was made.. On June 29, 2011, the Company raised $55 million of equity.  The capital raise triggered a change in control  under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  Generally,  Section 382 limits the utilization of an entity's net operating loss carry forwards, general business credits, and recognized built-in losses upon a change in ownership.  The Company is subject to an annual limitation of approximately $0.9 million.  The Company has a net deferred tax asset (\"DTA\") of approximately $22.3 million.  Based on management's calculations, the Section 382 limitation has resulted in previous reductions of the deferred tax asset of $5.8 million.  The Company also continues to maintain a valuation allowance for the remaining net deferred tax asset of $22.0 million.  The Company is unable to determine how much, if any, of the remaining DTA will be utilized.. Risks Associated with Cyber-Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings.. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems as a way to misappropriate assets and sensitive information, corrupt and destroy data, or cause operational disruptions. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur.  Although we rely on security safeguards to secure our data, these safeguards may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches.. We also rely on the integrity and security of a variety of third party processors, payment, clearing and settlement systems, as well as the various participants involved in these systems, many of which have no direct relationship with us.  Failure by these participants or their systems to protect our customers' transaction data may put us at risk for possible losses due to fraud or operational disruption.. Our customers are also the target of cyber attacks and identity theft.  Large scale identity theft could result in customers' accounts being compromised and fraudulent activities being performed in their name.  We have implemented certain safeguards against these types of activities but they may not fully protect us from fraudulent financial losses.. The occurrence of a breach of security involving our customers' information, regardless of its origin, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, and could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. System failure or breaches of Carver's network security could subject it to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure Carver and its third-party service providers use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems.  Carver's operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers.  Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in Carver's operations could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.  Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through Carver's computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to Carver and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with Carver.  Although Carver, with the help of third-party service providers, intends to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures designed to prevent such damage, its security measures may not be successful.  In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms Carver and its third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data.  A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on Carver's financial condition and results of operations.. It is possible that a significant amount of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack.  While Carver has general liability insurance, there are limitations on coverage as well as dollar amount.  Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to Carver's reputation.  Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on Carver's business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss.. The Company's business could suffer if it fails to retain skilled people.. 31. The Company's success depends on its ability to attract and retain key employees reflecting current market opportunities and challenges.  Competition for the best people is intense, and the Company's size and limited resources may present additional challenges in being able to retain the best possible employees, which could adversely affect the results of operations."
