[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. Risks Relating to our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital. We Have a History of Losses and Anticipate Future Losses and May Never Become Profitable on a Sustained Basis. To date, we have been engaged primarily in research and development activities. Although in the past we have received limited revenues on royalties from the sales of pharmaceuticals, license fees and research and development funding from a former collaborator and limited revenues from certain research grants, we have not derived significant revenues from operations.. We have experienced losses in each year since inception. Through December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $452.7 million. We will seek to raise capital to continue our operations and although we have been successfully funded to date through the sales of our equity securities and through limited royalty payments, there is no assurance that our capital-raising efforts will be able to attract the funding needed to sustain our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funding for operations, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In any such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment.. We expect that our ongoing clinical and corporate activities will result in operating losses for the foreseeable future before we commercialize any products, if ever. In addition, to the extent we rely on others to develop and commercialize our products, our ability to achieve profitability will depend upon the success of these other parties. To support our research and development of certain product candidates, we may seek and rely on cooperative agreements from governmental and other organizations as a source of support. If a cooperative agreement were to be reduced to any substantial extent, it may impair our ability to continue our research and development efforts. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase it.. 14. Our Common Stock Could Be Delisted From The NASDAQ Capital Market, Which Could Affect Our Common Stock’s Market Price and Liquidity.. Our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market is contingent upon meeting all the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. In the past, we have received written notices from NASDAQ for failing to maintain a minimum bid price of not less than $1.00 per share and a minimum of $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity. Although we have regained compliance with NASDAQ’S continued listing standards, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance in the future.. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited. Delisting could also result in less liquidity for our stockholders and a lower stock price.. We May Engage in Strategic and Other Corporate Transactions, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and Prospects. We may consider strategic and other corporate transactions as opportunities present themselves. There are risks associated with such activities. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective strategic partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integration, being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction, such as drug candidates, possible dilution to our stockholders, and the loss of key employees due to changes in management. Further, strategic transactions may place additional constraints on our resources by diverting the attention of our management from our business operations. To the extent we issue securities in connection with additional transactions, these transactions and related issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and our ownership. Our financial condition and prospects after an acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business or technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.. The Current Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company’s Access to Capital, Cost of Capital, and Ability to Execute its Business Plan as Scheduled. Access to capital markets is critical to our ability to operate. Traditionally, biopharmaceutical companies (such as we) have funded their research and development expenditures through raising capital in the equity markets. Declines and uncertainties in these markets over the past few years have severely restricted raising new capital in amounts sufficient to conduct our current operations and have affected our ability to continue to expand or fund research and development efforts with our product candidates. We require significant capital for research and development for our product candidates and clinical trials. In recent years, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected our access to capital and increased the cost of capital, and there is no certainty that a recovery in the capital and credit markets, enabling us to raise capital in an amount to sufficiently fund our short-term and long-term plans, will occur in 2018. If these economic conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of equity or debt capital and access to the capital markets could be adversely affected. In addition, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms because of our low stock price, or upon our delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market if we fail to satisfy a listing requirement, could affect our ability to execute our business plan as scheduled. Moreover, we rely and intend to rely on third parties, including our clinical research organizations, third party manufacturers, and certain other important vendors and consultants. As a result of the current volatile and unpredictable global economic situation, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors and suppliers. If such third parties are unable to adequately satisfy their contractual commitments to us in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected.. 15. We Do Not Have Any Active Revenue Streams and We Are Uncertain Whether Additional Funding Will Be Available For Our Future Capital Needs and Commitments. If We Cannot Raise Additional Funding, or Access the Capital Markets, We May Be Unable to Complete Development of Our Product Candidates. We will require substantial funds in addition to our existing working capital to develop our product candidates and otherwise to meet our business objectives. We have never generated sufficient revenue during any period since our inception to cover our expenses and have spent, and expect to continue to spend, substantial funds to continue our clinical development programs. Any one of the following factors, among others, could cause us to require additional funds or otherwise cause our cash requirements in the future to increase materially:. ·progress of our clinical trials or correlative studies;. ·results of clinical trials;. ·changes in or terminations of our relationships with strategic partners;. ·changes in the focus, direction, or costs of our research and development programs;. ·competitive and technological advances;. ·establishment of marketing and sales capabilities;. ·manufacturing;. ·the regulatory approval process; or. ·product launch.. At December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $43.5 million.  We may continue to seek additional capital through public or private financing or collaborative agreements in 2018 and beyond. Our operations require significant amounts of cash. We may be required to seek additional capital for the future growth and development of our business. We can give no assurance as to the availability of such additional capital or, if available, whether it would be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, we may continue to seek capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience substantial dilution. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital because we are unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms, it could reduce our research and development efforts and materially adversely affect our future growth, results of operations and financial results.. Governmental control of currency conversion and payments of RMB out of mainland China may limit our ability to utilize our cash balances effectively and affect the value of your investment.. Our China subsidiary has assets that include approximately 79.4 million China Renminbi (“RMB”), valued at approximately $12.2 million in U.S. dollars.   On a consolidated basis this balance accounts for approximately 28% of our total cash and cash equivalents.  The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of RMB out of mainland China.  Control on payments out of mainland China may restrict the ability of our China subsidiary to remit RMB to us.  Approval from China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) and the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) may be required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, and approval from SAFE and the PBOC or their branches may be required where RMB are to be remitted out of mainland China. Specifically, under the existing restrictions, without a prior approval from SAFE and the PBOC, the cash balance of our China subsidiary is not available to us for activities outside of China including support of our in-licensing efforts.  Furthermore, because repatriation of funds requires the prior approval of SAFE and PBOC, such repatriation could be delayed, restricted or limited.. 16. Risks Relating to Our Business. We Plan To Conduct Development And Operations In China, Which Exposes Us To Risks Inherent In Doing Business In China. We expect to continue to conduct clinical development related activities in China in 2018. To be successful in China we will need to: establish clinical trials; attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our China-based subsidiary; and attract and retain research and development employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do any of these. Employee turnover in China is high due to the intensely competitive and fluid market for skilled labor. Operations in China are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than our operations in other countries. In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China, both nationally and regionally, is fluid and unpredictable. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations such as those related to, among other things, taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property, employee benefits and other matters. In addition, we may not obtain or retain the requisite legal permits to operate in China, and costs or operational limitations may be imposed in connection with obtaining and complying with such permits. Any one of the factors cited above, or a combination of them, could result in unanticipated costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business and planned operations and development in China.. We May Not Be Able To Successfully Identify And Acquire New Product Candidates. Our growth strategy relies on our in-license of new product candidates from third parties. Our pipeline will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify appropriate acquisition candidates. Moreover, other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial resources are competing with us for the right to acquire such product candidates.. If a product candidate is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, the negotiation and completion of collaborative and license arrangements could cause significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our ongoing business.. Development of Our Products is Uncertain. Our product candidates are in the early stage of clinical development and require significant, time-consuming and costly research and development, testing and regulatory clearances. In developing our products, we are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of these product candidates. For example, it is possible that any or all of our proposed products will be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise will fail to receive necessary FDA and CFDA clearances. There is a risk that the proposed products will be uneconomical to manufacture or market or will not achieve market acceptance. There is also a risk that third parties may hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing our proposed products or that others will market a superior or equivalent product. Further, our research and development activities might never result in commercially viable products.. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials. Any significant clinical setback or an unfavorable outcome in our clinical trials may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate programs and could have a material adverse effect on our company and the value of our common stock.. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including:. ·ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results;. ·failure to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements;. ·lower than anticipated retention rate of patients in clinical trials;. ·serious adverse events or side effects experienced by participants; and. ·insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials.. Many of these factors may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. If we experience delays, suspensions or terminations in a clinical trial, the commercial prospects for the related product candidate will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed.. 17. Although product candidates may demonstrate promising results in early clinical (human) trials and preclinical (animal) studies, they may not prove to be effective in subsequent clinical trials. For example, testing on animals may occur under different conditions than testing in humans and therefore the results of animal studies may not accurately predict human experience. Likewise, early clinical studies may not be predictive of eventual safety or effectiveness results in larger-scale pivotal clinical trials.. There are many regulatory steps that must be taken before any of these product candidates will be eligible for regulatory approval and subsequent sale, including the completion of preclinical and clinical trials. We do not expect that our product candidates will be commercially available for several years, if ever.. We May Not Be Able to Commercialize Our Drugs or Drug Candidates in China. We have exclusive licenses to develop and commercialize EVOMELA® (melphalan hydrochloride) for injection MARQIBO® (vinCRIStine sulfate LIPOSOME injection) and ZEVALIN® (ibritumomab tiuxetan) in Greater China. In addition, on January 26, 2018 we acquired a portfolio of 25 U.S. FDA-approved ANDAs, one ANDA that FDA tentatively approved, and three ANDAs that are pending FDA approval. An ANDA contains data that is submitted to FDA for the review and potential approval of a generic drug product. Once approved, the applicant may manufacture and market the generic drug product to provide a safe, effective, lower cost alternative to the brand-name drug it references. We intend to select and commercialize certain products from our ANDA portfolio that offer unique market and cost-effective manufacturing opportunities in China and/or in the U.S.. Our success in commercializing these drugs may be inhibited by a number of factors, including:. ·our inability to obtain regulatory approvals;. ·our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. ·the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or educate physicians on the benefits of our products;. ·our lack of experience in manufacturing drugs for commercial sales;. ·the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and. ·unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we decide to rely on third parties to manufacture, sell, market and distribute our products and product candidates, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with such third parties or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, our product revenues and our profitability, if any, may be lower if we rely on third parties for these functions than if we were to market, sell and distribute any products that we develop ourselves. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Developments By Competitors May Render Our Products Obsolete. If competitors were to develop superior drug candidates, our products could be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete, resulting in a material adverse effect to our business. Developments in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Success depends upon achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies. Competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be intense. Many competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Even if a competitor creates a product that is not superior, we may not be able to compete.. 18. In the generic products market, we face competition from other generic pharmaceutical companies, which may impact our selling price and revenues from such products. The FDA approval process often results in the FDA granting final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product at the time a patent for a corresponding brand product or other market exclusivity expires. This may force us to face immediate competition when we seek to introduce a generic product into the market. If competition from other generic pharmaceutical companies intensifies, revenues may decline.. We Must Show the Safety and Efficacy of Our Product Candidates Through Clinical Trials, the Results of Which are Uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our products, we must demonstrate, through preclinical studies (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing), that our proposed products are safe and effective for use in each target indication. Testing of our product candidates will be required, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the required regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the potential product.. Clinical trials for the product candidates we are developing may be delayed by many factors, including that potential patients for testing are limited in number. The failure of any clinical trials to meet applicable regulatory standards could cause such trials to be delayed or terminated, which could further delay the commercialization of any of our product candidates. Newly emerging safety risks observed in animal or human studies also can result in delays of ongoing or proposed clinical trials. Any such delays will increase our product development costs. If such delays are significant, they could negatively affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products.. Compliance with Ongoing Post-marketing Obligations for Our Approved ANDAs and NDAs May Uncover New Safety Information that Could Give Rise to a Product Recall, Updated Warnings, or Other Regulatory Actions that Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business.. After the FDA approves a drug for marketing under an NDA or ANDA, the product’s sponsor must comply with several post-marketing obligations that continue until the product is discontinued. These post-marking obligations include the prompt reporting of serious adverse events to the agency, the submission of product-specific annual reports that include changes in the distribution, manufacturing, and labeling information, and notification when a drug product is found to have significant deviations from its approved manufacturing specifications (among others). Our ongoing compliance with these types of mandatory reporting requirements could result in additional requests for information from the FDA and, depending on the scope of a potential product issue that the FDA may decide to pursue, potentially also result in a request from the agency to conduct a product recall or to strengthen warnings and/or revise other label information about the product. Any of these post-marketing regulatory actions could materially affect our sales and, therefore, they have the potential to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Success of Our Business Depends Upon the Members of Our Senior Management Team, Our Clinical Development Expertise in Both U.S. and China, and Our Ability to Continue to Attract and Retain Qualified Clinical, Technical and Business Personnel. We are dependent on the principal members of our senior management team and clinical development team for our business success. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development and business objectives. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. There is intense competition for human resources, including management, in the scientific fields in which we operate and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful commercialization of our newly-acquired ANDA portfolio, development of our product candidates, and any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. In addition, there can be no assurance that such personnel or resources will be available when needed. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our clinical strategy and other business activities. All of our consultants may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us.. 19. We May Need New Collaborative Partners to Further Develop and Commercialize Products, and if We Enter Into Such Arrangements, We May Give Up Control Over the Development and Approval Process and Decrease our Potential Revenue. We plan to develop and commercialize our product candidates both with and without corporate alliances and partners. Nonetheless, we intend to explore opportunities for new corporate alliances and partners to help us develop, commercialize and market our product candidates. We expect to grant to our partners certain rights to commercialize any products developed under these agreements, and we may rely on our partners to conduct research and development efforts and clinical trials on, obtain regulatory approvals for, and manufacture and market any products licensed to them. Each individual partner will seek to control the amount and timing of resources devoted to these activities generally. We anticipate obtaining revenues from our strategic partners under such relationships in the form of research and development payments and payments upon achievement of certain milestones. Since we generally expect to obtain a royalty for sales or a percentage of profits of products licensed to third parties, our revenues may be less than if we retained all commercialization rights and marketed products directly. In addition, there is a risk that our corporate partners will pursue alternative technologies or develop competitive products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by our programs.. We may not be successful in establishing any collaborative arrangements. Even if we do establish such collaborations, we may not successfully commercialize any products under or derive any revenues from these arrangements. There is a risk that we will be unable to manage simultaneous collaborations, if any, successfully. With respect to existing and potential future strategic alliances and collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the expertise and dedication of sufficient resources by these outside parties to develop, manufacture, or market products. If a strategic alliance or collaborative partner fails to develop or commercialize a product to which it has rights, we may not recognize any revenues on that particular product.. We Depend on Patents and Other Proprietary Rights, Some of Which are Uncertain. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents for our products in the United States, China and elsewhere. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in general is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Risks that relate to patenting our products include the following:. ·our failure to obtain additional patents;. ·challenge, invalidation, or circumvention of patents already issued to us;. ·failure of the rights granted under our patents to provide sufficient protection;. ·independent development of similar products by third parties; or. ·ability of third parties to design around patents issued to our collaborators or us.. Our potential products may conflict with composition, method, and use of patents that have been or may be granted to competitors, universities or others. As the biotechnology industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims that may infringe the patents of others. Such other persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action and any license required under any needed patent might not be made available on acceptable terms, if at all.. 20. We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques and gain access to our trade secrets and disclose our technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. We require our employees to complete confidentiality training that specifically addresses trade secrets. All employees, consultants, and advisors are required to execute a confidentiality agreement when beginning an employment or a consulting relationship with us. The agreements generally provide that all trade secrets and inventions conceived by the individual and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship automatically become our exclusive property. Employees and consultants must keep such information confidential and may not disclose such information to third parties except in specified circumstances. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.. To the extent that consultants, key employees, or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information. Any such disputes may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of our consultants are employed by or have consulting agreements with other companies and any inventions discovered by them generally will not become our property.. Our Potential Products Are Subject to Government Regulatory Requirements and an Extensive Approval Process. Our research, development, preclinical and clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing of our product candidates are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA, the CFDA in China and other regulatory agencies. The process of obtaining FDA, CFDA and other required regulatory approvals for drug and biologic products, including required preclinical and clinical testing, is time consuming and expensive. Even after spending time and money, we may not receive regulatory approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of any products. Our collaborators or we may encounter significant delays or costs in the effort to secure necessary approvals or licenses. Even if we obtain regulatory clearance for a product, that product will be subject to continuing review.  Later discovery of previously unknown defects or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of the product from the market, as well as possible civil or criminal penalties.. Potential Products May Subject Us to Product Liability for Which Insurance May Not Be Available. The use of our potential products in clinical trials and the marketing of any pharmaceutical products may expose us to product liability claims. We have obtained a level of liability insurance coverage that we believe is adequate in scope and coverage for our current stage of development. However, our present insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities we might incur. In addition, our existing coverage will not be adequate as we further develop products and, in the future, adequate insurance coverage and indemnification by collaborative partners may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost. If a product liability claim or series of claims are brought against us for uninsured liabilities, or in excess of our insurance coverage, the payment of such liabilities could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition.. We are subject to certain U.S. healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to certain U.S. healthcare laws and regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation:. •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute (AKS), which governs our business activities, including our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities. The AKS prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration is not defined in the AKS and has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example, gifts, discounts, coupons, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others;. 21. •the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its regulations which prohibit, among other things, the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of any food, drug, device, or cosmetic that is adulterated or misbranded;. •federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. •federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their implementing regulations, which impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts;. •the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a U.S. law which regulates certain financial relationships with foreign government officials (which could include, for example, certain medical professionals);. •federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers;. •federal and state government price reporting laws that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs (participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs, and could potentially affect our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts); and. •federal and state financial transparency laws, which generally require certain types of expenditures in the United States to be tracked and reported (compliance with such requirements may require investment in infrastructure to ensure that tracking is performed properly, and some of these laws result in the public disclosure of various types of payments and relationships with healthcare providers and healthcare entities, which could potentially have a negative effect on our business and/or increase enforcement scrutiny of our activities).. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate certain federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, FDA rule and regulations, as well as false claims laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we, or our officers or employees, may be subject to penalties, including administrative civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, withdrawal of regulatory approval, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products or operate our business and also adversely affect our financial results.. 22. If we are unable to obtain both adequate coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for our products, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products is highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is, and will be, available from third-party payers, including governmental payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. Patients may not be capable of paying for our products themselves and may rely on third-party payers to pay for, or subsidize, the costs of their medications, among other medical costs. If third-party payers do not provide coverage or reimbursement for our products, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payers provide some coverage or reimbursement for our products, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased.. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payers in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives.. We expect that healthcare reform measures, including the potential repeal and replacement of PPACA, that may be adopted in the future, may have a significant impact on our business. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts was enacted, which, among other things, removed penalties for not complying with the individual mandate to carry health insurance. Additionally, all or a portion of PPACA and related subsequent legislation may be modified, repealed or otherwise invalidated through judicial challenge, which could result in lower numbers of insured individuals, reduced coverage for insured individuals and adversely affect our business. If PPACA is repealed and replaced then it is unclear how the replacement statute may impact our business. If PPACA is not repealed or replaced then it will continue to impose requirements on our business.. Moreover, certain politicians, including the President, have announced intentions to propose initiatives to regulate the prices of pharmaceutical products. We cannot know what form any such legislation may take or the market’s perception of how such legislation would affect us. Any reduction in reimbursement from government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our current products and/or those for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future.. Risks Relating to Our Reliance on Third Parties. The Independent Clinical Investigators and Contract Research Organizations That We Rely Upon to Assist in the Conduct of Our Clinical Trials May Not Be Diligent, Careful or Timely, and May Make Mistakes, in the Conduct of Our Trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it could delay the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with to assist with the execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products.. 23. We Have No Current Manufacturing or Marketing Capacity and Rely on Only One Supplier For Some of Our Products. We do not expect to manufacture or market products in the near term, but we may try to do so in certain cases. We do not currently have the capacity to manufacture or market products and we have limited experience in these activities. The manufacturing processes for all of the small molecules we are developing have not yet been tested at commercial levels, and it may not be possible to manufacture these materials in a cost-effective manner. If we elect to perform these functions, we will be required to either develop these capacities, or contract with others to perform some or all of these tasks. We may be dependent to a significant extent on corporate partners, licensees, or other entities for manufacturing and marketing of products. If we engage directly in manufacturing or marketing, we will require substantial additional funds and personnel and will be required to comply with extensive regulations. We may be unable to develop or contract for these capacities when required to do so in connection with our business.. We depend on our third-party manufacturers to perform their obligations effectively and on a timely basis. These third parties may not meet their obligations and any such non-performance may delay clinical development or submission of products for regulatory approval, or otherwise impair our competitive position. Any significant problem experienced by one of our suppliers could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of materials to us until such supplier resolves the problem or an alternative source of supply is located. Any delay or interruption would likely lead to a delay or interruption of manufacturing operations, which could negatively affect our operations. Although we have identified alternative suppliers for our product candidates, we have not entered into contractual or other arrangements with them. If we needed to use an alternate supplier for any product, we would experience delays while we negotiated an agreement with them for the manufacture of such product. In addition, we may be unable to negotiate manufacturing terms with a new supplier as favorable as the terms we have with our current suppliers.. Problems with any manufacturing processes could result in product defects, which could require us to delay shipment of products or recall products previously shipped. In addition, any prolonged interruption in the operations of the manufacturing facilities of one of our sole-source suppliers could result in the cancellation of shipments. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including equipment malfunctions or failures, or damage to a facility due to natural disasters or otherwise. Because our manufacturing processes are or are expected to be highly complex and subject to a lengthy regulatory approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our manufacturing could increase our costs and damage our reputation.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products can be an expensive, time consuming, and complex process. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling-up production of new products, including quality control and assurance and shortages of personnel. Delays in formulation and scale-up to commercial quantities could result in additional expense and delays in our clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and commercialization.. Failure of Manufacturing Facilities Producing Our Product Candidates to Maintain Regulatory Approval Could Delay or Otherwise Hinder Our Ability to Market Our Product Candidates. Any manufacturer of our product candidates will be subject to applicable Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) prescribed by the FDA or other rules and regulations prescribed by the CFDA and other foreign regulatory authorities. We and any of our collaborators may be unable to enter into or maintain relationships either domestically or abroad with manufacturers whose facilities and procedures comply or will continue to comply with GMP and who are able to produce our small molecules in accordance with applicable regulatory standards. Failure by a manufacturer of our products to comply with GMP could result in significant time delays or our inability to obtain marketing approval or, should we have market approval, for such approval to continue. Changes in our manufacturers could require new product testing and facility compliance inspections. In the United States, failure to comply with GMP or other applicable legal requirements can lead to federal seizure of violated products, injunctive actions brought by the federal government, inability to export product, and potential criminal and civil liability on the part of a company and its officers and employees.. 24. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Highly Volatile or May Decline Regardless of Our Operating Performance. Our common stock price has fluctuated from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to be volatile. During 2017, our stock price has ranged from $0.91 to $4.00. We expect that the trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile in response to factors that are beyond our control. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. In the future, our operating results in a particular period may not meet the expectations of any securities analysts whose attention we may attract, or those of our investors, which may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our Largest Holders Of Common Stock May Have Different Interests Than Our Other Stockholders. A small number of our stockholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have interests that are different from the interests of our other stockholders. We cannot assure that our largest stockholders will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of ownership in our common stock may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with significant stockholders. Our largest stockholders, if they acted together, could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our largest stockholders together may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval.. Subsequent Resales Of Shares Of Our Common Stock In The Public Market May Cause The Market Price Of Our Common Stock To Fall. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by investors from time to time, or perceptions that such sales may occur, of a substantial amount of the shares of common stock held by them.. Issuances of Additional Shares of Our Common Stock May Cause Substantial Dilution of Existing Stockholders. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, future strategic relationships, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any additional shares of our common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are then traded."
