[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks or uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We participate in a highly competitive market, and increased competition may adversely affect our business.. We operate in a market that is highly competitive. We compete with multiple companies as to each of our offerings and in every region of the globe in which we operate, including competing with other companies that offer advanced delivery technologies, outsourced dose form or biologics manufacturing, clinical trials support services, or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. We also compete in some cases with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health customers that also have manufacturing capabilities and choose to source these services internally.. We face substantial competition in each of our markets. Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how, capabilities, consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value, responsiveness, and speed. Some competitors may have greater financial, research and development, operational, and marketing resources than we do. Competition may also increase as additional companies enter our markets or use their existing resources to compete directly with ours. Expanded competition from companies in low-cost jurisdictions, such as India and China, may in the future adversely affect our results of operations or limit our growth. Greater financial, research and development, operational, and marketing resources may allow our competitors to respond more quickly with new, alternative, or emerging technologies. Changes in the nature or extent of our customers' requirements may render our offerings obsolete or non-competitive and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The demand for our offerings depends in part on our customers' research and development and the clinical and market success of their products. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed if our customers spend less on, or are less successful in, these activities.. Our customers are engaged in research, development, production, and marketing of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer and animal health products. The amount of customer spending on research, development, production, and marketing, as well as the outcomes of such research, development, and marketing activities, have a large impact on our sales and profitability, particularly the amount our customers choose to spend on our offerings. Our customers determine the amounts that they will spend based upon, among other things, available resources and their need to develop new products, which, in turn, is dependent upon a number of factors, including their competitors' research, development, and production initiatives, and the anticipated market uptake, clinical and reimbursement scenarios for specific products and therapeutic areas. In addition, consolidation in the industries in which our customers operate may have an impact on such spending as customers integrate acquired operations, including research and development departments and their budgets. Our customers finance their research and development spending from private and public sources. A reduction in spending by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our customers are not successful in attaining or retaining product sales due to market conditions, reimbursement issues, or other factors, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to product and other liability risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flows.. We are subject to potentially significant product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture, and marketing of our offerings. We may be named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which may allege that our offerings have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury to consumers. Such lawsuits could be costly to defend and could result in reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of management's time, attention, and resources. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.. Furthermore, product liability claims and lawsuits, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition, and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. We have historically sought to manage this risk through the combination of product liability insurance and contractual indemnities and liability limitations in our agreements with customers and vendors. The availability of product liability insurance for companies in the pharmaceutical industry is generally more limited than insurance available to companies in other industries. Insurance carriers providing product liability insurance to those in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries generally limit the. 20. Table of Contents. amount of available policy limits, require larger self-insured retentions, and exclude coverage for certain products and claims. We maintain product liability insurance with annual aggregate limits in excess of $25 million. There can be no assurance that a successful product liability or other claim would be adequately covered by our applicable insurance policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity or liability limitations.. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or result in claims from customers.. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. We, and our customers, are subject to various local, state, federal, foreign, and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating, quality, and security standards of the FDA, the DEA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the DHHS, similar bodies of the E.U. and its member states, and other comparable agencies around the world, and, in the future, any change to such laws and regulations could adversely affect us. Among other rules affecting us, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning cGMP and drug safety. Our subsidiaries may be required to register for permits or licenses with, and may be required to comply with, the laws and regulations of the FDA, the DEA, the DHHS, foreign agencies including the EMA, and other various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, or comparable state and foreign agencies, as well as certain accrediting bodies, depending upon the type of operations and locations of distribution and sale of the products manufactured or services provided by those subsidiaries.. The manufacture, distribution, and marketing of our offerings are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, the DEA, the EMA, and other equivalent local, state, federal, foreign and transnational regulatory authorities. Failure by us or by our customers to comply with the requirements of these regulatory authorities could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture or distribution, restrictions on our operations, civil or criminal sanctions, or withdrawal of existing or denial of pending approvals, permits or registrations, including those relating to products or facilities. In addition, any such failure relating to the products or services we provide could expose us to contractual or product liability claims as well as claims from our customers, including claims for reimbursement for lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients, which cost could be significant. Customers may also claim loss of profits due to lost or delayed sales, although our contracts generally place substantial limits on such claims. There can be no assurance that any such contractual limitation will be applicable, sufficient, or fully enforced in any given situation.. In addition, any new offering or product classified as a pharmaceutical or medical device must undergo lengthy and rigorous clinical testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by the FDA, the EMA and other equivalent local, state, federal, and foreign regulatory authorities. We or our customers may elect to delay or cancel anticipated regulatory submissions for current or proposed new products for any number of reasons.. Although we believe that we comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of our operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses, or other regulatory approvals or obtain, without significant delay, future permits, licenses, or other approvals needed for the operation of our businesses. Any noncompliance by us or our customers with applicable law or regulation or the failure to maintain, renew, or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, loss of a permit, license, or other approval in any one portion of our business may have indirect consequences in another portion of our business if regulators or customers adjust their reviews of such other portion as a result or customers cease business with such other portion due to fears that such loss is a sign of broader concerns about our ability to deliver products or services of sufficient quality.. Failure to provide quality offerings to our customers could have an adverse effect on our business and subject us to regulatory actions or costly litigation.. Our results depend on our ability to execute and improve when necessary our quality management strategy and systems, and effectively train and maintain our employee base with respect to quality management. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, and improving our offerings. While we have a network of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities that relate to the design, formulation, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution, and labeling of the products we supply, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our offerings. A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may subject us to regulatory actions, including product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture or distribution, restrictions on our operations, or civil sanctions, including monetary sanctions and criminal actions. In addition, such an issue could subject us to costly litigation, including claims from our customers for reimbursement for the cost of lost or damaged active pharmaceutical ingredients or other related losses, the cost of which could be significant.. 21. Table of Contents. The services and offerings we provide are highly exacting and complex, and, if we encounter problems providing the services or support required, our business could suffer.. The offerings we provide are highly exacting and complex, particularly in our Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, and Oral Drug Delivery segments, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. From time to time, problems may arise in connection with facility operations or during preparation or provision of an offering, in both cases for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, equipment malfunction, sterility variances or failures, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, environmental factors, and damage to, or loss of, manufacturing operations due to fire, flood or similar causes. Such problems could affect production of a particular batch or series of batches, require the destruction of or otherwise result in the loss of product or materials used in the production of product, or could halt facility production altogether. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, reimbursement to customers for lost active pharmaceutical ingredients or other related losses, time and expense spent investigating the cause, lost production time, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. Production problems in our drug and biologic manufacturing operations could be particularly significant because the cost of raw materials is often higher than in our other businesses. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. In addition, such risks may be greater at facilities that are new or going through significant expansion or renovation.. Our global operations are subject to economic, political and regulatory risks, including the risks of changing regulatory standards or changing interpretations of existing standards that could affect the profitability of our operations or require costly changes to our procedures.. We conduct our operations in various regions of the world, including North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Global and regional economic and regulatory developments affect businesses such as ours in many ways. Our operations are subject to the effects of global and regional competition, including potential competition from manufacturers in low-cost jurisdictions such as India and China. Local jurisdiction risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws. Our global operations are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation and recession. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, and related hostilities can interfere with our supply chain and customers and some or all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such mitigating measures may be unavailable or costly or may not succeed.. The exit of the U.K. from the European Union could have future adverse effects on our operations revenues and costs, and therefore our profitability.. In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which a majority of voters approved the U.K.'s exit from the E.U., and the U.K. government has invoked its right to withdraw, effective in March 2019. There is no immediate change in either the U.K. or the E.U. as a result of either action, but the U.K. government is now engaged in both internal and external discussions with affected parties, and legislation regarding the changes that will result from the decision to exit. Four of our thirty-four facilities, employing hundreds of workers, are located in the U.K., and these facilities, as well as others in our network, source goods, manufacture goods and provide services from or intended for the U.K.  These facilities operate within an existing framework of trade and human capital integration with the EU and, by extension, the other parts of the world, with which the EU has trade and immigration agreements. Furthermore, some of our facilities located in other E.U. member states ship materials to or otherwise engage in various business interactions with the U.K., including our U.K. facilities. Due to future changes in the U.K. resulting from an eventual exit, including potentially increased trade barriers, increased tariff rates or custom duties, or in anticipation of such changes, our suppliers, customers, or employees may change their interactions with us, including changes in imports to or exports from the U.K., changes in the requested utilization of our facilities, both within and without the U.K., and changes in our relationships with our workforce in the U.K.  To the extent that our facilities operate as part of a cross-border supply and distribution chain, their operations may also be negatively affected by a decrease in the cross-border mobility of goods and services. We cannot anticipate the nature of these changes, as they largely depend on factors outside our control, but the changes may result in adverse changes in our future operations, revenues, and costs, and therefore our future profitability.. If we do not enhance our existing or introduce new technology or service offerings in a timely manner, our offerings may become obsolete or uncompetitive over time, customers may not buy our offerings, and our revenue and profitability may decline.. The healthcare industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Demand for our offerings may change in ways we may not anticipate because of evolving industry standards as well as a result of evolving customer needs that are increasingly sophisticated and varied and the introduction by others of new offerings and technologies that provide alternatives to our. 22. Table of Contents. offerings. Several of our higher margin offerings are based on proprietary technologies. To the extent that our proprietary rights are based on patents, patents are inherently of limited longevity and therefore will ultimately expire, and such offerings may then become subject to competition. Without the timely introduction of enhanced or new offerings, our offerings may become obsolete or uncompetitive over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. For example, if we are unable to respond to changes in the nature or extent of the technological or other needs of our pharmaceutical customers through enhancing our offerings, our competition may develop offerings that are more competitive than ours and we could find it more difficult to renew or expand existing agreements or obtain new agreements. Potential innovations intended to facilitate enhanced or new offerings generally will require a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability, and we may not have financial resources sufficient to fund all desired innovations.. The success of enhanced or new offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. •  properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, including increasing demand for lower cost products;. •  enhance, innovate, develop, and manufacture new offerings in an economical and timely manner;. •  differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings;. •  achieve positive clinical outcomes for our customers' new products;. •  meet safety requirements and other regulatory requirements of governmental agencies;. •  obtain valid and enforceable intellectual property rights; and. •  avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.. Even if we succeed in creating enhanced or new offerings from these innovations, they may still fail to result in commercially successful offerings or may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development, and they may be rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of offerings embodying new technologies or features. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance, and uncertainty over market access or government or third-party reimbursement.. We and our customers depend on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other forms of intellectual property protections, but these protections may not be adequate.. We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that these protections will prove meaningful against competitive offerings or otherwise be commercially valuable or that we will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. Our exclusive rights under certain of our offerings are protected by patents, some of which will expire in the near term. When patents covering an offering expire, loss of exclusivity may occur, and this may force us to compete with third parties, thereby affecting our revenue and profitability. We do not currently expect any material loss of revenue to occur as a result of the expiration of any patent currently protecting our business.. Our proprietary rights may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. We may in the future be subject to proceedings seeking to oppose or limit the scope of our patent applications or issued patents. In addition, in the future, we may need to take legal actions to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and the outcome of any such legal action may be unfavorable to us.. Any legal action regardless of outcome might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our proprietary and confidential information, there can be no assurance that our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, our trade secrets will not otherwise become known by competitors, or that we will have adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary information. Even if the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property is upheld, an adjudicator might construe our intellectual property not to cover the alleged infringement. In addition, intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or practically ineffective in some foreign countries. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or that third parties will not design around our intellectual property claims to produce competitive offerings. The use of our technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales, or otherwise harm our business.. 23. Table of Contents. We have applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks, and patents, some of which have been registered or issued, and also claim common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. In the past, third parties have occasionally opposed our applications to register intellectual property, and there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. It is possible that in some cases we may be unable to obtain the registrations for trademarks, service marks, and patents for which we have applied, and a failure to obtain trademark and patent registrations in the United States or other countries could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and proprietary technologies and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions.. License agreements with third parties control our rights to use certain patents, software, and information technology systems and proprietary technologies owned by third parties, some of which are important to our business. Termination of these license agreements for any reason could result in the loss of our rights to this intellectual property, causing an adverse change in our operations or the inability to commercialize certain offerings.. In addition, many of our branded pharmaceutical customers rely on patents to protect their products from generic competition. Because incentives exist in some countries, including the United States, for generic pharmaceutical companies to challenge these patents, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are under the ongoing threat of challenges to their patents. If the patents on which our customers rely were successfully challenged and, as a result, the affected products become subject to generic competition, the market for our customers' products could be significantly adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We attempt to mitigate these risks by making our offerings available to generic as well as branded manufacturers and distributors, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in marketing these offerings.. Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.. We depend on various active pharmaceutical ingredients, components, compounds, raw materials, and energy supplied primarily by others for our offerings. This includes, but is not limited to, gelatin, starch, iota carrageenan, petroleum-based products and resin. Also, our customers frequently provide to us their active pharmaceutical or biologic ingredient for formulation or incorporation in the finished product. It is possible that any of our or our customers' supplier relationships could be interrupted due to changing regulatory requirements, import or export restrictions, natural disasters, international supply disruptions caused by pandemics, geopolitical issues, operational or quality issues at the suppliers' facilities, and other events, or could be terminated in the future.. For example, gelatin is a critical component in most of the products produced in our Softgel Technologies segment. Gelatin is available from only a limited number of sources. In addition, much of the gelatin we use is bovine-derived. Past concerns of contamination from BSE have narrowed the number of possible sources of particular types of gelatin. If there were a future disruption in the supply of gelatin from any one or more key suppliers, we may not be able to obtain an adequate alternative supply from our other suppliers. If future restrictions were to emerge on the use of bovine-derived gelatin due to concerns of contamination from BSE or otherwise, any such restriction could hinder our ability to timely supply our customers with products and the use of alternative non-bovine-derived gelatin could be subject to lengthy formulation, testing, and regulatory approval.. Any sustained interruption in our receipt of adequate supplies could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, while we have processes intended to reduce volatility in component and material pricing, we may not be able to successfully manage price fluctuations, and future price fluctuations or shortages may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Changes in market access or healthcare reimbursement for, or public sentiment towards our customers' products in the United States or internationally, or other changes in applicable policies regarding the healthcare industry, including possible changes to the Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\") in the United States, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by affecting demand for our offerings.. The healthcare industry has changed significantly over time, and we expect the industry to continue to evolve. Some of these changes, such as ongoing healthcare reform, adverse changes in governmental or private funding of healthcare products and services, legislation or regulations governing patient access to care and privacy, or the delivery, pricing, or reimbursement approval of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to change the amount of our offerings they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our offerings. In particular, there is significant uncertainty about the likelihood of changes to the ACA and healthcare laws in general in the United States, including future legislation that may affect or put a cap on future pricing of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. While we are unable to predict the likelihood of changes to the ACA, any substantial revision of this or other healthcare legislation could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our customers' products, which in turn could have a negative impact on our results of. 24. Table of Contents. operations, financial condition, or business. Changes in the healthcare industry's pricing, selling, inventory, distribution, or supply policies or practices, or in public or government sentiment for the industry as a whole, could also significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations. In particular, volatility in individual product demand may result from changes in public or private payer reimbursement or coverage.. As a global enterprise, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency, against foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations.. As a company with significant operations outside of the United States, certain revenues, costs, assets and liabilities, including our euro-denominated 4.75% Senior Notes due 2024 and a portion of our senior secured credit facilities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the currency that we use to report our financial results. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies or any other applicable currency to the U.S. dollar will affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. There has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates affecting the various currencies in which we do business, including as a result of the U.K.'s referendum to exit from the E.U. Such volatility and other changes in exchange rates could result in unrealized and realized exchange losses, despite any effort we may undertake to manage or mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.. The impact to our business of U.S. tax legislation enacted in December 2017, could differ materially from our current estimates.. In December 2017, the U.S. government enacted wide-ranging tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\"). The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised U.S. tax law by, among other provisions, (a) lowering the applicable U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, (b) creating a partial territorial tax system that includes imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on previously deferred foreign earnings, (c) creating provisions regarding the (1) income deemed to be Global Intangible Low Tax Income (\"GILTI\"), (2) the Foreign Derived Intangible Income (\"FDII\") deduction, and (3) the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (\"BEAT\"), and (d) eliminating or reducing certain income tax deductions, such as deductions for interest expense, executive compensation expense, and certain employee expenses.. Although we are still determining all the effects of the 2017 Tax Act on our present and future income tax liability, including the degree to which we will be able to reduce our effective U.S. federal income tax rate due to the reduction in the statutory rate, we recorded a net charge of $42.5 million within our income tax provision as a provisional estimate of the net accounting impact of the 2017 Tax Act. We recorded this charge on a provisional basis, based on our present understanding of the 2017 Tax Act and other information available as of the time of the estimates, including assumptions and expectations about future events.. Although we believe these provisional amounts represent a reasonable estimate of the ultimate enactment-related impact the 2017 Tax Act will have on our consolidated financial statements, we may adjust these amounts materially as additional information becomes available and we complete further analysis. The impact of the 2017 Tax Act to our business in future periods is also subject to a variety of factors beyond our control including, but not limited to, (i) potential \"technical corrections\" or other amendments to the 2017 Tax Act; (ii) potential changes to state, local, and foreign tax laws in response to the 2017 Tax Act; and (iii) potential new or interpretative guidance issued by the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the Internal Revenue Service related to the 2017 Tax Act. Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materiality from our current expectations or investors' expectations. Further, there are certain effects of the 2017 Tax Act we cannot reasonably estimate, including effects due to (a) the GILTI rules, (b) the FDII deduction, (c) the BEAT, (d) provisions eliminating or reducing certain income tax deductions, such as deductions for interest expense, executive compensation expense, and certain employee expenses, and (e) the state tax impact of the 2017 Tax Act. As we gather, analyze, and consider additional data in the context of the 2017 Tax Act and ASC 740 Income Taxes, we may adjust in future periods our current estimates, but we will do so only during the measurement period prescribed by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"). Any such adjustment may be material.. Tax legislative or regulatory initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and several international jurisdictions, including Canada, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state, and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax laws and. 25. Table of Contents. regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that relevant tax authorities will not challenge our tax positions or that we would succeed in defending against any such challenge.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. We have in the past sustained net operating losses that we may use to reduce future taxable income. Utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to a substantial limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), and comparable provisions of state, local, and foreign tax laws due to changes in ownership of our company that may occur in the future. Under Section 382 of the Code and comparable provisions of state, local, and foreign tax laws, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change by value in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to carry forward its pre-change net operating losses to reduce its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future changes in our stock ownership. As a result, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to reduce U.S. federal and state taxable income we produce in the future years may be subject to limitations, which could result in increased future tax liability to us.. Changes to the estimated future profitability of the business may require that we establish an additional valuation allowance against all or some portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets.. We have deferred tax assets for net operating loss carryforwards and other temporary differences. We currently do not maintain a valuation allowance for a portion of our U.S. net deferred tax assets. We may experience, in the future, a decline in U.S. federal taxable income, resulting from a decline in profitability of our U.S. operations, an increased level of debt in the U.S., or other factors. In assessing our ability to realize our U.S. deferred tax assets, we may conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized. As a result, we may be required to record an additional valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and therefore our financial results.. We depend on key personnel.. We depend on our executive officers and other key personnel, including our technical personnel, to operate and grow our business and to develop new and enhanced offerings and technologies. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel or a failure to attract and retain suitably skilled technical personnel could adversely affect our operations.. In addition to our executive officers, we rely on approximately 130 senior employees to lead and direct our business. Our senior leadership team (\"SLT\") is comprised of our and our subsidiaries' executive officers and other vice presidents and directors who hold critical positions and possess specialized talents and capabilities that give us a competitive advantage in the market. The members of the SLT hold positions such as facility general manager, vice president/general manager of business unit commercial development, vice president of quality and regulatory activities, and vice president-finance.. With respect to our technical talent, we have approximately 1,800 scientists and technicians whose areas of expertise and specialization cover subjects such as advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. Many of our sites and laboratories are located in competitive labor markets like those in which our Morrisville, North Carolina; Brussels, Belgium; Woodstock, Illinois; Madison, Wisconsin; Emeryville, California, Bloomington, Indiana, and Schorndorf, Germany facilities are located. Global and regional competitors and, in some cases, customers and suppliers compete for the same skills and talent as we do.. We use advanced information and communication systems to run our operations, compile and analyze financial and operational data, and communicate among our employees, customers, and counter-parties, and the risks generally associated with information and communications systems could adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuously working to install new, and upgrade existing, systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber security risks to enhance the protections available to us, but such protections may be inadequate to address malicious attacks or inadvertent compromises of data security.. We rely on information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to:. • facilitate the manufacture and distribution of thousands of inventory items in, to and from our facilities;. • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;. • manage the accurate billing and collections for roughly one thousand customers;. 26. Table of Contents. • create, compile, and retain testing and other product-, manufacturing-, or facility-related data necessary for meeting our and our customers' regulatory obligations.. • manage the accurate accounting and payment for thousands of vendors;. • schedule and operate our global network of development, manufacturing and packaging facilities;. • document various aspects of our activities, including the agreements we make with suppliers and customers;. • compile financial and other operational data into reports necessary to manage our business and comply with various regulatory or contractual obligations, including obligations under our bank loans and other indebtedness, the federal securities laws, the Code, other applicable state, local, and foreign tax laws; and. • communicate among our 10,700 employees spread across thirty-four facilities over five continents.. We deploy defenses against cyber-attack and work to secure the integrity of our data systems using techniques, hardware, and software typical of companies of our size and scope. Despite our security measures, however, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by increasingly sophisticated intruders or others who try to cause harm to or interfere with our normal use of our systems. They are also susceptible to breach due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions.  Our results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period.. We engage from time to time in acquisitions and other transactions that may complement or expand our business or divest of non-strategic businesses or assets. We may not be able to complete such transactions, and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks, including risks relating to our ability to successfully and efficiently integrate acquisitions or execute on dispositions and realize anticipated benefits therefrom. The failure to execute or realize the full benefits from any such transaction could have a negative effect on our operations.. Our future success may depend in part on opportunities to buy or otherwise acquire rights to other businesses or technologies, enter into joint ventures or otherwise enter into strategic arrangements with business partners that could complement, enhance, or expand our current business or offerings and services or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities, or divest assets, or an ongoing business of one or more of our subsidiaries. We may face competition from other companies in pursuing acquisitions and similar transactions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Our ability to complete transactions may also be limited by applicable antitrust and trade regulation laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we or the operations or assets we seek to acquire carry on business. To the extent that we are successful in making acquisitions, we expend substantial amounts of cash, incur debt, or assume loss-making divisions as consideration. We or the purchaser of a divested asset or business may not be able to complete a desired acquisition or disposition, respectively, for reasons including, but not limited to, a failure to secure financing.. Any acquisition that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the diversion of management's attention to integrate the acquired businesses or joint ventures, the possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process, the potential loss of customers or employees in connection with the acquisition, delays or reduction in realizing expected synergies, unexpected liabilities and our potential inability to achieve our intended objectives for the transaction. In addition, we may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies.. To the extent that we are not successful in completing desired divestitures, as such may be determined by future strategic plans and business performance, we may have to expend substantial amounts of cash, incur debt, or continue to absorb the costs of loss-making or under-performing divisions. Any divestiture, whether we are able to complete it or not, may involve a number of risks, including diversion of management's attention, a negative impact on our customer relationships, costs associated with maintaining the business of the targeted divestiture during the disposition process, and the costs of closing and disposing of the affected business or transferring remaining portions of the operations of the business to other facilities.. Our offerings or our customers' products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties.. From time to time, third parties have asserted intellectual property infringement claims against us and our customers, and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against either us or our customers in the future. While we believe that our offerings do not infringe in any material respect upon proprietary rights of other parties and/or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertion to the contrary, there can be no assurance that we could successfully avoid being found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. Patent applications in the United States and some foreign countries are generally not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued or published, and we and our customers may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our or their products, offerings or processes. If patents later issue on these applications, we or they may be found liable for subsequent infringement. There has been substantial litigation in the. 27. Table of Contents. pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries with respect to the manufacture, use, and sale of products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights.. Any claim that our offerings or processes infringe third-party intellectual property rights (including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers), regardless of the claim's merit or resolution, could be costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We may not prevail against any such claim given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property matters. If any such claim results in an adverse outcome, we could, among other things, be required to:. • pay substantial damages (potentially including treble damages in the United States);. • cease the manufacture, use, or sale of the infringing offerings or processes;. • discontinue the use of the infringing technology;. • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology;. • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or may not be available at all; and. • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others.. In addition, our customers' products may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement and such claims could materially affect our business if their products cease to be manufactured or they have to discontinue the use of the infringing technology.. Any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future.. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those of the EPA and the U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration and equivalent local, state, and foreign regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination, and employee health and safety. Any failure by us to comply with environmental, health, and safety requirements could result in the limitation or suspension of production or subject us to monetary fines or civil or criminal sanctions, or other future liabilities in excess of our reserves. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the destruction and disposal of raw materials and non-compliant products, the handling of regulated material that are included in our offerings, and the disposal of our products or their components at the end of their useful lives. In addition, compliance with environmental, health, and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly environmental or safety control equipment, incur other significant expenses, or modify our manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing facilities may use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us. In the event of the discovery of new or previously unknown contamination either at our facilities or at third-party locations, including facilities we formerly owned or operated, the issuance of additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations for which we are responsible, we may be required to take additional, unplanned remedial measures for which we have not recorded reserves. We are conducting monitoring and cleanup of contamination at certain facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us, and such activities may result in unanticipated costs or management distraction.. We are subject to labor and employment laws and regulations, which could increase our costs and restrict our operations in the future.. We employ approximately 10,700 employees worldwide, including approximately 5,500 employees in North America, 3,700 in Europe, 900 in South America, and 600 in the Asia/Pacific region. Certain employees at one of our North American facilities are represented by a labor organization, and national works councils or labor organizations are active at all of our European facilities and certain of our other facilities consistent with local labor environments/laws. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory. However, further organizing activities, collective bargaining, or changes in the regulatory framework for employment may increase our employment-related costs or may result in work stoppages or other. 28. Table of Contents. labor disruptions. Moreover, as employers are subject to various employment-related claims, such as individual and class actions relating to alleged employment discrimination and wage-hour and labor standards issues, such actions, if brought against us and successful in whole or in part, may affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Certain of our pension plans are underfunded, and additional cash contributions we may make to increase the funding level will reduce the cash available for our business or to discharge our financial obligations.. Certain of our current and former employees in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, France, Japan, Belgium, Switzerland, and Australia are participants in defined benefit pension plans that we sponsor. As of June 30, 2018, the underfunded amount of our pension plans on a worldwide basis was $73.0 million, primarily related to our pension plans in the U.K. and Germany. In addition, we have an estimated obligation of $39.0 million, as of June 30, 2018, related to our withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan in which we formerly participated. In general, the amount of future contributions to the underfunded plans will depend upon asset returns, applicable actuarial assumptions, prevailing and expected interest rates, and other factors, and, as a result, the amount we may be required to contribute in the future to fund the obligations associated with such plans may vary. Such cash contributions to the plans will reduce the cash available for our business, including the funds available to pursue strategic growth initiatives or the payment of interest expense on our indebtedness.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or in our industry or to deploy capital to grow our business, expose us to interest-rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. We are highly leveraged. As of June 30, 2018, we had $1,587.3 million (dollar equivalent) of senior secured indebtedness, $450 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2026 (the \"USD Notes\"), \200380.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"Euro Notes\" and, together with the USD Notes, the \"Senior Notes\"), and $188.9 million of deferred purchase consideration related to the acquisition of Catalent Indiana, as well as an additional $194.8 million of un-utilized capacity and $5.2 million of outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility.. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences for us, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry, or competitive developments;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest;. • exposing us to the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates because certain of our borrowings, including certain of our senior secured term loan facilities and the Euro Notes, are denominated in euros;. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in one or more events of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or capital investments or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. Our total interest expense, net was $111.4 million, $90.1 million, and $88.5 million for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. After taking into consideration our ratio of fixed-to-floating rate debt, an increase of 100 basis points in floating rates would increase our annual interest expense by $12.4 million.. Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries will still be able to incur significant additional debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a. 29. Table of Contents. number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that we may incur while remaining in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit the ability of Operating Company and those of its subsidiaries to which these covenants apply (which Operating Company's Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 20, 2014 (as amended, the \"Credit Agreement\") calls \"restricted subsidiaries\") to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred stock;. • pay certain dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of capital stock or make other restricted payments;. • pay distributions from restricted subsidiaries;. • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;. • guarantee certain indebtedness;. • make certain investments;. • sell or exchange assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • create certain liens; and. • consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of their assets and the assets of their subsidiaries, when considered on a consolidated basis.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross-default provisions, and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us.. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable-rate indebtedness or changes in foreign currency, and any such instrument may expose us to risks related to counterparty credit worthiness or non-performance of these instruments.. We may enter into interest-rate swap agreements, foreign currency swap agreements, or other hedging transactions in an attempt to limit our exposure to changes in variable interest rates. Such instruments may result in economic losses if, for example, prevailing interest rates decline to a point lower than any applicable fixed-rate commitment. Any such swap will expose us to credit-related risks that, if realized, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may change significantly, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The trading price of our common stock has been and continues to be volatile.  Since shares of our common stock were offered for sale in our initial public offering on July 31, 2014 through June 30, 2018, our common stock price ranged from $18.92 to $47.87. The trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to a number of factors such as those listed in \"Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry\" and the following:. • results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts or investors;. • results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;. • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts or investors;. • declines in the market prices of stocks generally, or those of pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, other strategic relationships, or capital commitments;. 30. Table of Contents. • changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets;. • changes in business or regulatory conditions or regulatory actions taken with respect to our business or the business of any of our competitors or customers;. • future sales of our common stock or other securities;. • investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;. • the public response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with or documents furnished to the SEC;. • announcements relating to or developments in litigation;. • guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any change in this guidance, or any failure to meet this guidance;. • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;. • changes in accounting principles or our application of these principles to our business; and. • other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, hostilities, acts of terrorism, geopolitical activity, or responses to these events.. Broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float or trading volume of our common stock is low, and the amount of public float on any given day can vary depending on whether our stockholders choose to hold for the long term.. Following periods of market volatility, stockholders have been known to institute securities class action litigation in order to recover their resulting losses. If we become involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of senior management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. Because we have no plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on your investment in your stock unless you sell it for a net price greater than that which you paid for it.. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion, and debt repayment and have no current plan to pay any cash dividend for the foreseeable future. Our board of directors has also authorized a stock buyback program that we may use from time to time to purchase our common stock. Any future decision to pay a dividend, and the amount and timing of any future dividend on shares of our common stock will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account, when deciding whether or how to pay a dividend, numerous factors, including general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, possible future alternative deployments of our cash, our future capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax, and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness and may be limited by covenants of any future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it, taking into account any applicable commission or other costs of acquisition or sale.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock or our sector, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock has been affected in part by the research and reports that industry and financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or our industry, change their views regarding the stock of any of our competitors or other healthcare sector companies, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the market price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 31. Table of Contents. Future sales, or the perception of future sales of common stock, by us or our existing stockholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.. The sale of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. As of August 21, 2018, 31,120 shares of our common stock, representing less than 1% of our total outstanding shares of common stock, are \"restricted securities\" within the meaning of the SEC's Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act (\"Rule 144\") and subject to certain restrictions on resale. Restricted securities may be sold in the public market only if they are registered under the Securities Act or are sold pursuant to an exemption from registration such as Rule 144.. In addition, 2,703,136 shares of common stock may become eligible for sale upon exercise of vested options.  A total of 6,700,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan, of which 1,143,702 shares of common stock remain available for future issuance at August 21, 2018.  These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resales by affiliates.. The market price of shares of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of shares of our common stock or other equity securities that we wish to issue. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of then-outstanding shares of our common stock, subject to limitations on issuance of new shares without stockholder approval imposed by the NYSE or to restrictions set forth in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments, acquisitions, or otherwise may result in dilution to you.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.. Certain provisions of our current certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer, or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt, or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, including transactions that might otherwise result in the payment of a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. •a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. •the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;. • advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings (though our board of directors has implemented shareholder proxy access);. • certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings;. • the removal of directors only for cause; and. • any amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation only by the affirmative vote of at least 66-2/3% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. Our board of directors has recommended, subject to shareholder approval at our 2018 annual meeting of shareholders, that the classification of the board of directors be eliminated over a three-year period, and that all directors elected without staggered three-year terms be subject to removal without cause. Provisions such as those just described, to the extent that they remain in effect, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. 32. Table of Contents"
