[1] "ITEM 1A.Risk Factors. In addition to risk disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are risks associated with our business and operations.. Changes in interest rates may reduce the Company's profits and impair asset values.. The Company's earnings and cash flows depend primarily on its net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company's control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. Changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than its interest earning assets. If rates increase rapidly, the Company may have to increase the rates paid on deposits, particularly higher cost time deposits and borrowed funds, more quickly than any changes in interest rates earned on loans and investments, resulting in a negative effect on interest rate spreads and net interest income. Increases in interest rates may also make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, the Company's net interest margin also could be negatively affected if competitive pressures keep it from further reducing rates on deposits, while the yields on the Company's interest-earning assets decrease more rapidly through loan prepayments and interest rate adjustments. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company's interest-earning assets, and in particular its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale determined to be temporary in nature are reported as a separate component of equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on the Company's shareholders' equity.. A large percentage of the Company's loans are collateralized by real estate, and further disruptions in the real estate market may result in losses and reduce the Company's earnings.. A substantial portion of the Company's loan portfolio consists of loans collateralized by real estate. Improving economic conditions have shifted to an increase in demand for real estate, which has resulted in stabilization of some real estate values in the Company's markets. Further disruptions in the real estate market could significantly impair the value of the Company's collateral and its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline further, it is likely that the Company would be required to increase its allowance for loan losses. If, during a period of lower real estate values, the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy debts or to increase its allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce its profitability and adversely affect its financial condition.. Failure to complete the pending merger with FWVB could negatively impact the Company's stock price and its future business and financial results.. There can be no assurance that the merger will be completed. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of the Company may be adversely affected and the Company may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from its customers and employees, and the Company also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger. All these matters, if they come to pass, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations and stock price.. If the FWVB merger is completed, the Company be unable to successfully integrate FWVB's operations or retain its employees, which could adversely affect the Company.. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the operations of the two companies include, among other things: integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; combining different corporate cultures; and retaining key employees. Furthermore, the diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in the integration of the two companies' operations could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations following the merger. Additionally, the Company may not be able to achieve the level of cost savings, revenue enhancements and other synergies that it expects to realize in the merger, and may not be able to capitalize upon the existing FWVB customer relationships to the extent anticipated, or it may take longer, or be more difficult or expensive than expected, to achieve these goals, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operation and stock price.. 29. Strong competition within the Company's market area could adversely affect the Company's earnings and slow growth.. The Company faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Company earning less on its loans and paying more on its deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company has and may offer services that it does not provide. The Company expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company's profitability will depend upon its continued ability to compete successfully in its market areas.. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect the Company's operations, financial condition and earnings.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") has changed the bank regulatory framework. For example, the law created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies, and gave the Federal Reserve exclusive authority to regulate both banking holding companies and savings and loan holding companies. The legislation also has resulted in numerous new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions (including Community Bank), including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to loans that are securitized and sold to investors, and in 2014 the federal bank agencies issued a final rule regarding retention of credit risk on loan sales.. These rules could make it more difficult for the Company to sell loans in the secondary market. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to any safety and soundness or compliance concerns identified in examinations, and such agencies have broad discretion and significant resources to initiate enforcement actions against financial institutions and their directors and officers in connection with their examination authority. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and in the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect the Company's operations by restricting business activities, including the ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms or foreclose on property securing loans.. Compliance with these new laws and regulations has required and will continue to require changes to the Company's business and operations and may result in additional costs and divert management's time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact its results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.. Proposed and final regulations would restrict Community Bank's ability to originate and sell loans.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which holds lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule, a qualified mortgage loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. ·excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. ·interest-only payments;. ·negative-amortization; and. ·terms of longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a loan must be made to a borrower whose total monthly debt-to-income ratio does not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower on the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. Although the significant majority of the Company's historical loan originations would qualify as qualified mortgages under the new rule on qualified mortgages, the new rule may limit the Company's ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, and may make it more costly and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit the Company's growth and/or profitability. The new rule may also alter the Company's residential mortgage loan origination mix between qualified and non-qualified mortgage loans, which could reduce gain on sale fees from secondary market loan sales and affect interest rate risk related to non-qualified loans that are originated and held in the Company's portfolio.. 30. A worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, recent economic growth has been slow and uneven. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending, and a notable portion of new jobs created nationally have been in lower wage positions. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which the Company operates, the value of loans and investments, ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in nonperforming and criticized classified assets, and a decline in demand for the Company's products and services. In addition, the recent decline in natural gas prices, if it persists or if prices decline further, may depress natural gas exploration and drilling activities in the Marcellus Shale Formation. Furthermore, exploration and drilling of natural gas reserves in our market area may be affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting production, permitting, environmental protection and other matters. Any of these events may negatively affect our customer, and may cause the Company to incur losses, and may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. If the Company's allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, the Company's results of operations would be negatively affected.. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, the Company analyzes its loss and delinquency experience by loan categories and considers the effect of existing economic conditions. In addition, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. If the results of these analyses are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the portfolio, which would require additions to the allowance and would reduce net income.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company's allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase the allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Because the Company emphasizes commercial real estate and commercial loan originations, its credit risk may increase, and continued downturns in the local real estate market or economy could adversely affect its earnings.. Commercial real estate and commercial loans generally have more inherent risk than the residential real estate loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the local real estate market or economy. Commercial real estate and commercial loans also may involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely affect the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As the Company's commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assess the future performance of newly originated commercial loans, as such loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above the Company's historical experience, which could adversely affect the Company's future performance.. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer.. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which results in additional provisions for loan losses. As circumstances warrant, we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, we have legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as additional costs, such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. The resolution of nonperforming assets also requires the active involvement of management, which can adversely affect the amount of time we devote to the income-producing activities of Community Bank. If our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly.. 31. If we are unable to borrow funds, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and procedures are established by the board, with operating limits set based upon the ratio of loans to deposits and percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. We regularly monitor our overall liquidity position to ensure various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. We also establish policies and monitor guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one market source. Wholesale funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and debt. Community Bank is a member of the FHLB of Pittsburgh, which provides funding through advances to members that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets.. We maintain a portfolio of available-for-sale securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources include the sale of loans, the ability to acquire national market, non-core deposits, issuance of additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances and federal funds purchased, and the issuance of preferred or common securities.. The impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.. The implementation of more stringent capital requirements for Community Bank and the Company could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require raising additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if they are unable to comply with such requirements. The stricter capital requirements could also result in management modifying its business strategy, and limit the Company's ability to make distributions (including paying dividends) or repurchasing its shares.. The Company's ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of Community Bank to make capital distributions to the Company, and also may be limited by Federal Reserve policy.. The Company's long-term ability to pay dividends to its shareholders depends primarily on the ability of Community Bank to make capital distributions to the Company and on the availability of cash at the holding company level if Community Bank's earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the policy provides that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the holding company appears consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Regulatory guidance provides for prior regulatory consultation with respect to capital distributions in certain circumstances, such as where the holding company's net income for the past four quarters, net of dividends paid over that period, is insufficient to fully fund the dividend or the holding company's overall rate or earnings retention is inconsistent with the its capital needs and overall financial condition. These regulatory policies may adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions.. Changes in the Company's accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's accounting policies are essential to understanding its financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company's assets, liabilities, and financial results. Some of the Company's accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the Company's financial statements are incorrect, it may experience material losses.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements. These changes are beyond the Company's control, can be difficult to predict, and could materially affect how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could also be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements in material amounts.. The need to account for certain assets at estimated fair value, such as loans held for sale and investment securities, may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company reports certain assets, such as loans held for sale, acquired loans and investment securities, at estimated fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, the Company uses quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because the Company carries these assets on its books at their estimated fair value, it may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk.. 32. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, the Company faces significant operational risks.. The Company operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from operations, including the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside a company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. If a breakdown occurs in the internal controls system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could incur financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, breaches of security or cyber security could negatively affect the Company's earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to the Company's business. The Company uses various technology systems to manage customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits and loans. The Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, interruptions and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of the Company's systems could deter customers from using its products and services. Security systems may not protect systems from security breaches.. In addition, the Company outsources some of its data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if the Company has difficulty communicating with them, the Company's ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption or breach of security could damage the Company's reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby, subjecting it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose it to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is constantly reliable upon the availability of technology, the Internet and telecommunication systems to enable financial transactions by clients, record and monitor transactions and transmit and receive data to and from clients and third parties. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by clients and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our clients' devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, malware, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of client assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.. The Company's risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to the company. The Company seeks to identify, measure, monitor, report and control exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While the Company uses a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased the Company's level of risk. Accordingly, the Company could suffer losses if it fails to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. 33. The Company is an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act and has decided to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies. Its common stock could, therefore, be less attractive to investors.. As an \"emerging growth company,\" the Company is eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, reduced disclosure about the Company's executive compensation and omission of compensation discussion and analysis, and an exemption from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation. In addition, the Company is not subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, including the additional level of review of its internal control over financial reporting that may occur when outside auditors attest to its internal control over financial reporting. The Company has elected to take advantage of these exceptions. As a result, the Company's stockholders will not have access to certain information they may deem important, which may adversely affect the value and trading price of the Company's common stock. Due to the pending merger, the Company feels that the emerging growth company status will expire as of 12/31/18 with exceeding the $1.0 billion asset limitation."
