[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We are subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance and our stock price. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance or stock price are discussed below. Any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we believe to be immaterial, could harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the cautionary statements and risk factors described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our stock.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition. We have limited cash and experience negative cash flows from operations, and may need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to seek to reorganize under bankruptcy laws or liquidate. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash of $2.8 million. Additionally, we have historically operated with negative cash flows from operations and had operating cash flow deficits of $5.3 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Due to these conditions, substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern.  If necessary, we will seek to raise additional capital from the sale of equity securities or the incurrence of indebtedness to allow us to continue operations.  There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  Our inability to raise capital when needed may cause us to reorganize our balance sheet and operations, or liquidate, under the protection of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which could result in a loss of your entire investment.  Consistent with the foregoing, our auditors have rendered a going concern opinion in respect of our financial statements.. We may require additional working capital to maintain our operations in the form of funding from outside sources which may be limited, difficult to obtain, or unavailable on acceptable terms or not available at all, or in the case of an offering of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, may result in dilution to our existing stockholders.. We have historically relied on outside sources of funding in the form of debt or equity. If necessary, we will seek to raise capital from the sale of equity securities or the incurrence of indebtedness to allow us to continue operations.. We believe that debt financing would be difficult to obtain because of our limited assets and cash flows. Any additional offering of shares of our common stock or of securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock may result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. Our ability to consummate a financing will depend not only on our ability to achieve positive operating results, but also on conditions then prevailing in the relevant capital markets. There can be no assurance that such funding will be available if needed, or on acceptable terms. In the event that we are unable to raise such funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail or cease our operations or the implementation of our business strategies or otherwise impede our on-going business efforts and/or seek reorganization under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.. Our business depends, in part, on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations, further tightening of emission standards worldwide, market acceptance of our catalyst products, and successful product verifications.. Although retrofit is a declining part of our business, future growth of our business depends in part on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected by economic as well as political reasons. Future funding remains uncertain as budget discussions continue to be debated in the U.S. Congress. Funding under the U.S. Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality program, or CMAQ, can be used by states for a variety of emission reduction programs including purchase of new vehicles, building high occupancy travel lanes (car-pool lanes) and retrofit programs. To the extent that these funds are not used for retrofit programs, it limits our sales opportunities. Funding for these types of emissions control projects. 5. drives demand for our products. If such funding is not available, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations, further tightening of emissions standards worldwide, market acceptance of our catalyst products and successful product verifications. If such standards do not continue to become stricter or are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.. The pursuit of opportunities relating to special government mandated retrofit programs requires cash investment in operating expenses and working capital such as inventory and receivables prior to the realization of profits and cash from sales and, if we are not successful in accessing cash resources to make these investments, we may miss out on these opportunities; further, if we are not successful in generating sufficient sales from these opportunities, we will not realize the benefits of the investments in inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although retrofit is a declining part of our business, we are pursuing revenue generating opportunities relating to special government mandated retrofit programs such as those in California and potentially others in various jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia. Opportunities such as these require cash investment in operating expenses and working capital such as inventory and receivables prior to realizing profits and cash from sales. If we are not successful in accessing cash resources to make these investments, we may miss out on these opportunities. Further, if we are not successful in generating sufficient sales from these opportunities, we will not realize the benefits of the investments in inventory, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which will likely result in significant legal and accounting expense and diversion of management resources, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and the market price of our stock will likely decline.. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls.. Any failure to maintain internal controls could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. If we do not file our financial statements on a timely basis as required by the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, we could face negative consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that material weaknesses or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, in the future our controls and procedures may no longer be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. Responding to inquiries from the SEC or The NASDAQ Capital Market, regardless of the outcome, is likely to consume a significant amount of our management resources and cause us to incur significant legal and accounting expense. Further, many companies that have restated their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and related stockholder lawsuits.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income is, and may continue to be, limited.. In connection with the debt conversion completed in the third quarter of 2016, we performed a study to evaluate the status of our net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"). Under Sections 382 and 383 of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes, such as R&D tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited.  In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5% shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. Because the debt conversion caused an \"ownership change\", our ability to use our NOLs and credits in future tax years has been significantly limited. In addition, due to the \"ownership change,\" our federal R&D credits have also been limited and, consequently, we do not anticipate being able to use any of these credits that existed as of the date of the debt conversion in future tax years. Our limited ability to use these NOLs and tax credits, including as a result of equity offerings subsequent to the debt conversion, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations once we become profitable.. 6. Changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, operating results, and financial condition.. Changes in tax laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretation of tax laws and regulations by federal or state authorities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. The federal government recently enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which contains many significant changes to federal income tax laws, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined. Changes in corporate tax rates and the deductibility of expenses contained in the 2017 Tax Act or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the future value of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, could result in significant one-time costs or expenses in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. In addition, foreign governments or U.S. states may enact tax laws in response to the 2017 Tax Act that could result in further changes to taxation applicable to us and materially affect our operating results and financial condition.. Foreign currency fluctuations could impact financial performance.. Because of our activities in the United Kingdom, Europe, Canada and Asia, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We do not manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a significant effect on our operations in the future.. Risks Related to Our Business. We cannot assure you that our transition into an advanced materials supplier will have the intended effect of increasing profitability.. We have completed our operating strategy transition, however, we are still in process with our business strategy transition. We believe that the transition to a powder-to-coat business model will allow us to achieve greater scale and higher return on our technology investment than in the past. In the short term, we expect to focus our efforts and resources in pursuing opportunities in fast growing markets in China and India, as well as North America, which we believe that we can serve profitably with our powder-to-coat business model. However, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful and, if they are, that they will have the intended effect of increasing profitability.. We may not be able to successfully implement this strategy for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to:. • Unforeseen costs and delays;. • Unexpected legal, regulatory, or administrative hurdles;. • Our customers' unfamiliarity with this business model;. • Restrictions on our technology; and. • Our inability to:. <U+25E6> Obtain additional capital to pursue such strategies on favorable terms or at all;. <U+25E6> Protect our intellectual property;. <U+25E6> Develop products that meet or exceed the qualification standards of OEMs and partners and provide greater value than alternatives;. <U+25E6> Persuade other catalyst manufacturers to incorporate our technology in their products;. <U+25E6> Find suitable third parties with whom to enter into partnering arrangements or invest in our business; and. <U+25E6> Compete successfully or enter new markets.. Furthermore, in attempting to execute this strategy, we may harm our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees or other third parties, any of which could be significant. The process of exploring, financing, and realigning our strategic path may also be disruptive to our business. While we believe the pursuit of this strategy will have a positive effect on our profitability in the long-term, there is no assurance that this will be the case. If we are not successful in our efforts to carry out this strategy, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected.. 7. Our sales of coated catalysts to Honda, which historically has represented a substantial portion of our revenues, began to significantly decline in the fourth quarter of 2017 and will substantially end in the first quarter of 2018, which will adversely affect our operations and financial results if we are unable to secure new sources of revenue.. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from sales to Honda, which represented 52% and 59% of consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. While we continually seek to broaden our customer base, we have remained dependent on Honda for a substantial portion of our revenue.  Our supply of coated catalysts to Honda began to significantly decline in the second half of 2017, as certain vehicle models were phased out and will substantially end with the first quarter of 2018.  Accordingly, it will be critical that our powder-to-coat business strategy produces revenues with new customers to replace revenues from our current core catalyst business with Honda.. Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our revenue and our revenue would decline if we are unable to maintain those relationships, if customers reduce their orders for our products, or if we are unable to secure new customers.. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers.  If we are unable to maintain our relationships with customers, or if customers reduce their orders for our products, our revenues will decline.. In addition, manufacturers typically seek to have two or more sources of critical components; however, there can be no assurance that manufacturers for which we are a shared supplier will not sole source the products we supply. Once our product is designed into a vehicle model, we generally supply our component for the life of that model. There can be no assurance, however, that our customers will retain us for a full model term. In this regard, relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements and customers can discontinue or materially reduce orders without warning or penalty. In addition, while new models tend to remain relatively stable for a few years, there can be no assurance that manufacturers will not change models more rapidly, or change the performance requirements of components used in those models, and use other suppliers for these new or revised models. Demand for our products is tied directly to demand for vehicles. Accordingly, factors that affect the truck and automobile markets have a direct effect on our business, including factors outside of our control, such as vehicle sales slowdowns due to economic concerns, or as a result of natural disasters, including earthquakes and/or tsunamis. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced demand from one or more of our significant customers, would have an adverse effect on our revenue, and could affect our ability to become profitable or continue our business operations.. An expired agreement between us and Honda may limit our rights to commercialize certain technology within the scope of that agreement and adversely affect our technology licensing strategy.. In conjunction with our longstanding relationship with Honda, we entered into a joint research agreement with the motorcycle division of Honda regarding the development of ZPGM\231 catalysts for motorcycles. The agreement was signed in 2010, extended in 2012 and expired in March 2014, although confidentiality provisions continue to survive. The agreement provides that technology within the scope of the agreement developed solely by one party is owned by that party, and that technology within the scope of the agreement that is jointly developed by both parties is jointly owned. While we believe that core technology within the scope of the agreement was developed solely by us, there can be no assurance that our belief will not be challenged or invalidated. To the extent that Honda is a joint owner of critical technology developed under the agreement, Honda (including its automotive division) might not be required to pay us a license or royalty fee for use of the jointly owned technology; Honda may be able to manufacture its own catalysts based on the jointly owned technology; and Honda may be able to license the jointly owned technology to others without our consent. In addition, under the terms of the agreement, we may not be able to license jointly owned technology to others without Honda's consent. Our inability to license jointly owned technology to others could adversely affect the ability to license certain technology.. We may not be able to successfully market new products that are developed or obtain verification or approval of our new products.. Our advanced material products are still in the development or testing stage with targeted customers. We are developing technologies in areas that are intended to have a commercial application; however, there is no guarantee that such technologies will actually result in any commercial applications. In addition, we plan to market other emissions reduction devices used in combination with our current products. There are numerous development and verification issues that may preclude the introduction of these products for commercial sale. These proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in a developing business enterprise, including the likelihood of continued operating losses. If we are unable to demonstrate the feasibility of these proposed commercial applications and products or obtain verification or approval for the products from regulatory agencies, we may have to abandon the products or alter our business plan. Such modifications to our business plan will likely delay achievement of revenue milestones and profitability.. 8. PGMs and rare earth metals price fluctuations could impact financial performance.. Because our catalysts contain platinum, palladium and rhodium, or platinum group metals (PGMs), and rare earth metals, fluctuations in prices could have an adverse impact on our profits as it may not be possible to recover price increases from customers. Additionally, increased prices could result in increased working capital requirements which we may not be able to finance. Conversely, reductions in PGM prices could reduce the competitive advantage our catalyst technologies have over conventional catalysts which rely on significantly higher PGM loadings to achieve emissions targets.. We depend on intellectual property and the failure to protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success.. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and other agreements with employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property. In addition, some of our intellectual property is not protected by any patent or patent application. The lack of patent and trademark protection may be intentional as we may lack sufficient resources to protect our intellectual property in every applicable jurisdiction. As a result, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without the need to obtain our authorization.. We do not know whether any patents will be issued from our pending or future patent applications or whether the scope of any issued patents is or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, patent applications and issued patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect or enforce intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.. The patents protecting our proprietary technologies expire after a period of time. Certain of our patents have expired and others have expiration dates ranging from 2018 through 2033. Although we have attempted to incorporate technology from our core patents into specific patented product applications, product designs and packaging, there can be no assurance that this building block approach will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology and products. If we are not successful in protecting our proprietary technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Questions have arisen regarding our exclusive ownership and control of certain technologies, including by our principal customer, Honda, and a former employee, who claims ownership in a patent relating to ZPGM\231. In addition, we have sold technology for exclusive use in Asia to another party. For additional information, refer to \"An expired agreement between us and Honda may limit our rights...\" above and \"We are subject to restrictions and must pay a royalty on certain sales of our products and technology in specified countries in Asia\" below. Past or future weaknesses in control of our intellectual property could render our current strategies unachievable, require that we change our strategies which could prove unsuccessful, result in litigation over ownership issues including the costs thereof and potential adverse findings, require that we pay to license back technology that we developed or co-developed, or otherwise material adversely affect us, our business and our financial performance.. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally have entered into nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and corporate partners. We also have attempted to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. We plan to continue these procedures. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technologies or independently develop similar technologies. The steps that we have taken and that may occur in the future might not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect the proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing our proprietary rights. For example, from time to time we have become aware of competing technologies employed by third parties who might be covered by one or more of our patents. In such situations, we may seek to grant licenses to such third parties or seek to stop the infringement, including through the threat of legal action. There is no assurance that we would be successful in negotiating a license agreement on favorable terms, if at all, or able to stop the infringement. Any infringement upon our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell commercially competitive systems and components.. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others which are necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected.. From time to time, we may choose to or be required to license technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development of our products. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The inability to. 9. obtain a necessary third-party license required for our product offerings or to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or of greater cost, either of which could adversely affect our business. If we are not able to obtain licenses from third parties, if necessary, then we may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims from these third parties. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to obtain or maintain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements, on favorable terms, our results of operations may be harmed.. If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to expend significant financial resources and management time litigating such claims and our operating results could suffer.. Third parties may claim that our products and systems infringe upon their patents and other intellectual property rights. Identifying third-party patent rights can be particularly difficult, notably because patent applications are generally not published until up to 18 months after their filing dates. If a competitor were to challenge our patents, or assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to make expensive product modifications, pay substantial damages or even be forced to cease some operations. Third-party infringement claims, regardless of their outcome, would not only drain financial resources but also divert the time and effort of management and could result in customers or potential customers limiting or deferring their purchase or use of the affected products or services until resolution of the litigation.. We are subject to restrictions and must pay a royalty on certain sales of our products and technology in specified countries in Asia.. In February 2008, we established a joint venture in Japan called TC Catalyst, Inc., or TCC, with Tanaka Holdings Co., Ltd. (formerly Tanaka Holdings K.K.), a Japanese company, which, together with its subsidiary Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K., is referred to herein as TKK. Initially, we and TKK each owned 50% of TCC, but since formation we have sold most of our stake in the venture to TKK and now own 5%. In connection with these transactions, we also sold to TKK certain proprietary technology for sale, licensing or use in various countries in Asia, which we refer to as the Territory. In general, the technology covers our catalyst formulations (including platinum and zero platinum) developed for heavy-duty commercial vehicles and other applications through 2013, and for non-commercial light vehicles through 2012. In addition, TKK has a right to cause us to license heavy-duty commercial technology to TKK or TCC in exchange for a royalty if TKK or TCC desire to sell related products or services outside the Territory to subsidiaries of OEM customers located within the Territory. We have also agreed not to compete in the Territory with TKK or TCC in connection with heavy-duty commercial vehicles and applications and light duty vehicles.. Subsequent to these arrangements, we discovered that an exception allowing us to continue to supply catalysts in Japan to our largest customer, Honda, had been omitted in an amendment to the original transaction documents with TKK. We have shipped approximately $5.6 million of catalysts covered by the agreements since such amendment through December 31, 2014. In this regard, in December 2014 we made a good faith payment of $0.3 million to TKK with respect to such prior shipments.. In addition, on March 13, 2015, we further amended our agreements with TKK and TCC to, among other things, enable us to sell in the Territory (i) coated substrates or certain catalytic materials utilizing the technology we sold to TKK for a 4% royalty to TKK; (ii) coated substrates and certain catalytic materials utilizing solely new technology developed by us after we sold TKK the prior technology, as well as licenses of such technology related to catalysts for heavy-duty commercial vehicles and applications and light duty vehicles, for a 3% royalty to TKK; (iii) products used in vehicles without a royalty, provided that the ultimate user of the vehicle which contains the product purchases the vehicle outside the Territory; (iv) limited quantities of coated substrates or certain catalytic materials sold for the purpose of customer testing, evaluation and approval without a royalty; and (v) limited quantities of coated substrates sold during an extended period of time after mass production ends for a specified vehicle model year program without a royalty.. Pursuant to the terms of the amendment, once an aggregate amount of approximately $16.6 million in royalties has been paid by us to TKK, we may commercialize any technology without a royalty, including inside the Territory.. Consequently, if we or third parties desire to sell our products or otherwise commercialize certain of our technology in the Territory, we currently would have to pay a royalty to TKK in order to do so, which could adversely affect our ability to expand. In addition, although we believe that the amendment to the parties' agreements will generally enable us to pursue our business strategies in the Territory and that, based on discussions with TKK, our non-binding, good faith payment relieves us from further obligations to TKK with respect to past shipments of catalysts covered by the agreements, there can be no assurance that TKK will not assert claims and pursue available remedies, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. 10. If we fail to comply with anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties.. As a result of our international operations, we may be subject to anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business.  If we fail to comply with these laws, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or other U.S. or foreign governmental authorities could seek civil and/or criminal sanctions, including monetary fines and penalties against us or our employees, as well as additional changes to our business practices and compliance programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. Developments stemming from changes in Government administrations, both foreign and domestic, could adversely affect our business.. Changes in administration could result in changes to political, regulatory and economic laws, policies and conditions that could severely and negatively impact our business. For example, the current U.S. administration has expressed doubt regarding existing trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and has raised the possibility of imposing tariffs on goods imported into the United States. Our customers are located around the world. Changes in U.S. political, regulatory and economic conditions or laws and policies governing U.S. tax laws, foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the countries where we or our customers operate could adversely affect our operating results and our business.. Failure of one or more key suppliers to timely deliver could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products. Delays in delivery times for PGM purchases could also result in losses due to fluctuations in prices. Delays in the delivery times and the cost impact of the world-wide shortage of rare earth metals could delay us from supplying products and could result in lower profits.. Due to customer demands and specifications, we are required to source critical materials and components such as ceramic substrates from a sole supplier. Our three largest suppliers accounted for over 39% of our raw material purchases during the year ended December 31, 2017. Failure of one or more of the key suppliers to deliver timely could prevent, delay or limit us from supplying products because we would be required to qualify an alternative supplier. For certain products and customers, we are required to purchase PGM materials. As commodities, PGM materials are subject to daily price fluctuations and significant volatility, based on global market conditions. Historically, the cost of PGMs used in the manufacturing process has been passed through to the customer. This limits the economic risk of changes in market prices to PGM metal usage in excess of nominal amounts allowed by the customer. However, going forward there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in passing PGM price risk onto our current and future customers to minimize the risk of financial loss. Additionally, PGM material is accounted for as inventory and therefore subject to lower of cost or market adjustments on a regular basis. A drop in market prices relative to the purchase price of PGMs could result in a write-down of inventory. Due to the high value of PGM materials, special measures have been taken to secure and insure the inventory. There is a risk that these measures may be inadequate and expose us to financial loss. We utilize rare earth metals in the production of some of our catalysts. Due to a reduction in export from China of these materials, there has been a world-wide shortage, leading to a lack of supply and higher prices. We risk delays in shipment due to this constrained supply and potentially lower margins if we are unable to pass the increased costs on to our customers.. Qualified management, marketing, and sales personnel are difficult to locate, hire and train, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it will harm the ability of the business to grow.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain current key personnel, attract and retain future key personnel, additional qualified management, marketing, scientific, and engineering personnel, and develop and maintain relationships with research institutions and other outside consultants. Competition for qualified management, technical, sales and marketing employees is intense. In addition, some employees might leave our Company and go to work for competitors. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, or the failure to assimilate effectively such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business.. Because of our size, growth in accordance with our business plan, if achieved, will place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources.  As we expand our activities, there will be additional demands on these resources.  The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrence of unexpected expansion difficulties, including issues relating to our research and development activities and retention of experienced scientists, managers and engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan.  If we are unable to implement these actions in a timely manner, our results may be adversely affected.. 11. Our transition from a niche manufacturer of emissions control solutions to an advanced materials technology provider of proprietary powders will increase our reliance on third-party manufacturers and could harm our business.. In connection with our efforts to realign our manufacturing footprint, we closed our Canadian manufacturing facility in 2016. As a result of this action, we now rely on third-party service providers to manufacture certain of our products. This reliance generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the production process, which could lead to production delays or interruptions, and inferior product quality control. In addition, performance problems at these third-party providers could lead to cost overruns, shortages or other problems, which could increase our costs of production or result in delivery delays to our customers.. If one or more of our third-party manufacturers becomes insolvent or unwilling to continue to manufacture products of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs, in a timely manner, our ability to deliver products to our retail customers could be significantly impaired. Substitute manufacturers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to manufacture the products we need on acceptable terms. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current third-party manufacturers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Customers rely upon our products to meet governmental emissions control standards. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods manufactured by our customers, and therefore, a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could subject us and our customers to product liability claims. We have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless certain of our customers against losses arising from environmental harm and product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market's perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results.. By email dated June 26, 2015, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) asserted that we had deficiencies in compliance with the Verification Procedure, Aftermarket Parts Regulations and the Vehicle Code. The penalty calculated by CARB for these alleged violations was $1.8 million, with the largest component relating to the use of empty center bodies to allow trucks to be placed back in service while warranty claims are being evaluated. This process is now explicitly permitted regulation, but was not permitted at the time of the alleged violation. Although we disagreed, and continue to disagree, with CARB's findings, we cooperated with CARB's investigation and discussed with CARB whether and to what extent the payment of monetary penalties would be appropriate. After review and evaluation of CARB's findings and publicly available CARB settlements for similar matters, we accrued an expense of less than $0.1 million as of December 31, 2015 to resolve this matter. During 2016, CARB responded to our proposed settlement with a counter-proposal of $0.8 million by cutting certain components of their initial penalty in half and reducing certain penalties. We ultimately reached a settlement for approximately $0.1 million that was paid in 2017.. We have entered into contractual agreements in connection with past sales of certain of our assets, which may expose us to liability for claims for indemnification under such agreements.. We have entered into various agreements by which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Generally, these indemnification provisions provide that we agree to hold the indemnified party harmless against losses arising from a breach of the contract terms. Payments by us under such indemnification clauses are generally conditioned on the other party making a claim. Such claims are generally subject to challenge by us and to dispute resolution procedures specified in the particular contract. Further, our obligations under these arrangements may be limited in terms of time and/or amount and, in some instances, we may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by us. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts of each particular agreement.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Future growth of our business depends, in part, on market acceptance of our catalyst products, successful verification of our products and retention of our verifications.. While we believe that there exists a viable market for our developing catalyst products, there can be no assurance that such technology will succeed as an alternative to competitors' existing and new products. The development of a market for the products is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The adoption cycles of our key customers are. 12. lengthy and require extensive interaction with the customer to develop an effective and reliable catalyst for a particular application. While we continue to develop and test products with key customers, there can be no guarantee that all such products will be accepted and commercialized. Our relationships with our customers are based on purchase orders rather than long-term formal supply agreements. Once a catalyst has successfully completed the testing and certification stage for a particular application, it is generally the only catalyst used on that application and therefore unlikely that, unless there are any defects, the customer will try to replace that catalyst with a competing product. However, our customers usually have alternate suppliers for their products and there is no assurance that we will continue to win the business. Also, although we work with our customers to obtain product verifications in accordance with their projected production requirements, there is no guarantee that we will be able to receive all necessary approvals for our catalysts by the time a customer needs such products, or that a customer will not accelerate its requirements. If we are not successful in having verified catalyst products to meet customer requirements, it will have a negative effect on our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If a market fails to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, we may be unable to recover the costs we will have incurred in the development of our products and may never achieve profitability. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to develop, manufacture or market our products or components if market conditions do not support the continuation of the product or component.. We believe that it is an essential requirement of the U.S. retrofit market that emissions control products and systems are verified under the EPA and/or CARB protocols to qualify for funding from the EPA and/or CARB programs. Funding for these emissions control products and systems is generally limited to those products and technologies that have already been verified. Verification is also useful for commercial acceptability. Notably, EPA verifications were withdrawn on two of our products in January 2009 because available test results were not accepted by the EPA as meeting new emissions testing requirements for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) measurement. As a general matter, we have no assurance that our products will be verified by the CARB or that such a verification will be acceptable to the EPA. If we are not able to obtain or maintain necessary product verifications, it will limit our ability to commercialize such products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and on our results of operations.. Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control.. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly:. • Actions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products;. • The extent to which our products obtain market acceptance;. • The timing and size of customer purchases;. • Customer concerns about the stability of our business, which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products; and. • Increases in raw material costs, particularly platinum group metals and rare earth metals.. We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated.. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air standards throughout the world, requirements in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations are possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air. In addition, while the EPA has adopted rules under existing provisions of the U.S. Clean Air Act that requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles, the U.S. President has signed an executive order directing the EPA and other executive agencies to review their existing regulations, orders, guidance documents and policies. It remains unclear how and to what extent these executive actions will impact the regulation of emissions at the federal level. Even if federal efforts in this area are slow, state, local and/or foreign governments may enact legislation or regulations that attempt to control or limit motor vehicle emissions. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete.. We face competition and technological advances by competitors.. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from internal combustion engines. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified. 13. by the EPA, the CARB or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost-efficient than our current or future products. We also face indirect competition from vehicles using alternative fuels, such as methanol, hydrogen, ethanol and electricity.. New standards, lower environmental limits or stricter regulation for health reasons of platinum or cerium metals could be adopted and affect use of our products.. New standards or environmental limits on the use of platinum or cerium metals by a governmental agency could adversely affect our ability to use our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst in some applications. Government or regulatory bodies in countries where we sell our Platinum Plus® fuel-borne catalyst could adopt limits or regulations with regards to platinum and cerium metals that could impact our ability to sell Platinum Plus® and related fuel borne catalysts.. Security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of our proprietary information, or other hacking attacks on our systems, could adversely affect our business.. Our industry is prone to cyber-attacks, with third parties seeking unauthorized access to our proprietary information and technology. Computer malware, viruses, and hacking and phishing attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry and may occur on our systems in the future. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and in some instances we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, we may be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our proprietary information and to prevent other cybersecurity breaches, we cannot guarantee that such measures will provide absolute security. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of our proprietary information could result in the loss or misuse of such proprietary information, which could harm our business and diminish our competitive position. Such attacks may also create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation, and operating results.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We could be delisted from NASDAQ, which could seriously harm the liquidity of our stock and our ability to raise capital.. During 2016, we received two separate notifications from the Listing Qualifications staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC indicating that we no longer met the requirements to maintain a minimum bid price of $1 per share and a minimum stockholders' equity of $2.5 million.  We remedied both deficiencies by August 30, 2016 and regained compliance with NASDAQ's requirements for continued listing on the exchange.. While currently we are in compliance with NASDAQ's rules for continued listing, in the future we may again fail to comply with the minimum bid price, minimum stockholders' equity or other NASDAQ listing requirement, in which case our common stock will be subject to delisting.  If that were to occur, there can be no assurance that we will be able to again regain compliance, or that we would be eligible for listing on any comparable trading market.  The effects of losing the NASDAQ listing could materially harm our ability to raise capital, by, among other things, negatively affecting the market liquidity of our common stock. Investors would likely find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Delisting from NASDAQ could also result in negative publicity and a loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers or employees.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert our management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations.  Compliance with these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased demand on our systems and resources.  Among other things, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting.  In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required.  As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and results of operations.  Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire even more employees or retain professional service providers in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, we expect that these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or. 14. incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage.  These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation and nominating committee, and qualified executive officers.. The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.. We have outstanding warrants and stock options to purchase shares of our common stock, and additional shares or warrants or options to acquire shares of our common stock may be issued in the future.  At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1.9 million shares of our common stock.  The exercise of these securities will result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock, whether in the public market or in a private placement to fund our operations, or as compensation. These issuances, particularly where the exercise price or purchase price is less than the current trading price for our common stock, could be viewed as dilutive to the holders of our common stock.. To provide us with additional flexibility to access capital markets for general corporate purposes, we filed a shelf registration statement which was declared effective by the SEC on November 17, 2015. The shelf registration statement permits us to sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate $50.0 million of various securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants to purchase common stock or preferred stock and units consisting of one or more of the foregoing or any combination of such securities, not to exceed one-third of our public float in any 12-month period.  As of December 31, 2017, we had sold an aggregate of $3.1 million using the shelf registration statement. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities under our shelf registration statement, our stockholders may experience dilution.. The risk of dilution, perceived or actual, may cause existing stockholders to sell their shares of stock, which could contribute to a decrease in the price of shares of our common stock. In that regard, downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock may also cause investors to engage in short sales, which could further contribute to downward pressure on the trading price of our stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock.  We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future.  As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.. There has been and may continue to be significant volatility in the volume and price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value.. Our stock historically has experienced high levels of volatility.  The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance.  These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following:. • fluctuations in demand for our products;. • product development efforts;. • the loss of any customer relationship;. • the addition of a new customer relationship;. • mergers and acquisitions involving us, our customers or our competitors;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float;. • actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations;. • whether our results of operations meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors;. • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts;. • litigation involving us, our industry, or both;. • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries, or both;. 15. • general economic conditions and trends;. • major catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock;. • departures of key employees; or. • an adverse impact on the company from any of the other risks cited herein.. In addition, if the stock market, in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition.  The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us.  Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities.  We may be the target of securities-related litigation, which could divert our management's attention and resources, result in substantial costs, and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition."
