[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us or currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of one or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our securities.. Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments.. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas and NGLs are commodities, and their prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs and market uncertainty. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile. For example, during the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2017, the WTI spot price for oil has declined from a high of $107.95 per Bbl on June 20, 2014 to $26.19 per Bbl on February 11, 2016, and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas has declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu on February 10, 2014 to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu on March 4, 2016. Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control, which include the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs;. • political and economic conditions in or affecting other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\"), its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. • the level of global exploration, development and production;. • the level of global inventories;. • prevailing prices on local price indexes in the area in which we operate;. • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities;. • localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves;. • weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • expectations about future commodity prices; and. • U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governmental regulation and taxes.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Compared to 2015, our realized oil price for 2016 fell 6% to $39.91 per barrel and increased in 2017 to $48.17 per barrel. Similarly, our realized natural gas price for 2016 dropped 3% to $2.52 per Mcf and increased to $2.75 per Mcf in 2017, and our realized price for NGLs increased 2% to $15.01 per barrel and to $26.28 per barrel in 2017. If the prices of oil and natural gas continue at current levels or decline further, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves may be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, lower commodity prices may reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to develop future reserves could be adversely affected. Also, using lower prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current WTI or Henry Hub strip prices and the resultant. 23. Table of Contents. effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves and related standardized measure. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures.. Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.. The oil and natural gas industry is capital-intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures related to development and acquisition projects. We have funded, and we expect that we will continue to fund, our capital expenditures with cash generated by operations and borrowings under CRP's revolving credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, natural gas and NGL prices; actual drilling results; the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production.. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • the prices at which our production is sold;. • our proved reserves;. • the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • the levels of our operating expenses; and. • CRP's ability to borrow under its revolving credit facility and the ability to access the capital markets.. If our revenues or the borrowing base under CRP's revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under CRP's revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties. This, in turn, could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include the following:. • landing a wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. • staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. • running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. • being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing wells include the following:. • the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. • the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. • the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing.. 24. Table of Contents. Furthermore, the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated, and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, acquisition and production activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production.. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see \" - Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.\" In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following:. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, emission of GHGs and limitations on hydraulic fracturing;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water and sand for hydraulic fracturing activities;. • equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events;. • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • adverse weather conditions;. • issues related to compliance with environmental regulations;. • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment;. • declines in oil and natural gas prices;. • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms;. • title problems; and. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings.. We enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production from time to time. As of December 31, 2017, we had entered into basis swaps through December 2018 covering a total of 2,730 MBbls of our projected oil production at a weighted average differential of $0.06 per bbl. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had entered into basis swaps covering a total of 1.8 million MMBtu of our projected natural gas production through December 2018 and 1.8 million MMBtu through December 2019, both at a weighted average differential of $0.43 per MMBtu. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations;. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or. 25. Table of Contents. • there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments.. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of CRP's borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty's liquidity, which could make the counterparty unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions.. During periods of declining commodity prices, our derivative contract receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts.. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected, and production declines may be greater than our estimates and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, and related standardized measure were calculated under rules of the SEC using twelve-month trailing average benchmark prices of $47.79 per barrel of oil (WTI Posted) and $2.98 per MMBtu (Henry Hub spot), which may be substantially higher or lower than the available spot prices in 2018. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits.. We will not be the operator on all of our acreage or drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets.. As of December 31, 2017, we have leased or acquired approximately 84,718 net acres, approximately 91% of which we operate. As of December 31, 2017, we operated 181 producing horizontal wells. We will have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners, and there is the risk that our partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Furthermore, the success and timing of development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. • the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • the operator's expertise and financial resources;. • the approval of other participants in drilling wells;. • the selection of technology; and. 26. Table of Contents. • the rate of production of reserves, if any.. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations and associated costs of some of our drilling locations could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. We have specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous identified drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of our identified locations. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See \" - Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves.\" Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or enable us to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. Additionally, if we curtail our drilling program, we may lose a portion of our acreage through lease expirations.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage, the primary term is extended through continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed.. As of December 31, 2017, over 64% of our total net acreage was held by production. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases, the leases are held beyond their primary terms under continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors.. Adverse weather conditions may negatively affect our operating results and our ability to conduct drilling activities.. Adverse weather conditions may cause, among other things, increases in the costs of, and delays in, drilling or completing new wells, power failures, temporary shut-in of production and difficulties in the transportation of our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Any decreases in production due to poor weather conditions will have an adverse effect on our revenues, which will in turn negatively affect our cash flow from operations.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions have persisted in Texas in past years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub-basin of the Permian Basin, primarily in West Texas. At December 31, 2017, all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand. 27. Table of Contents. factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced.. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production is transported from the wellhead to our tank batteries by our gathering systems. The oil is then transported by the purchaser by truck to a transportation facility. Our natural gas production is generally transported by third-party gathering lines from the wellhead to a gas processing facility. We do not control these trucks and other third-party transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third-party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production. Any such shut-in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced.. As of December 31, 2017, 60% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Development of these proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves. Further, we may be required to write-down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within five years after their respective dates of booking.. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our properties.. Accounting rules that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. Recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. Lower commodity prices in the future could result in impairments of our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken.. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The. 28. Table of Contents. impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend upon a small number of significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production.. We normally sell production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to Shell Trading (US) Company (\"Shell\"), BP America and Eagleclaw Midstream Ventures, LLC accounted for 33%, 16% and 14%, respectively, of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2016, sales to Plains Marketing, LP (\"Plains\"), Shell and Permian Transport and Trading accounted for 48%, 22%, and 11%, respectively, of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we only had one major customer, Plains, which accounted for 64% of total revenue. The loss of any of our major purchasers could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the short-term. However, based on the current demand for oil and natural gas and the availability of other purchasers, we believe that the loss of any major purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because crude oil and natural gas are fungible products with well-established markets and numerous purchasers.. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve taking difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue.. Certain environmental laws impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks.. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. Our development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination;. • abnormally pressured formations;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; fire, explosions and ruptures of pipelines;. • personal injuries and death;. • natural disasters; and. • terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties; and. • repair and remediation costs.. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro-seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • title problems;. • pressure or lost circulation in formations;. • equipment failure or accidents;. • adverse weather conditions;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and. • increases in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services.. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow.. In the future we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a. 30. Table of Contents. disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and purchase prices higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, debt agreements impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions and our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business.. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including city ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Although none of our drilling locations associated with proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2017 are on properties currently subject to such land use restrictions, such restrictions could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which activity has increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those items. To the extent that commodity prices continue to improve in the future, any delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to resume or increase our development activities could result in production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire.. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned.. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue as commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our derivative activities.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the EP Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,238,271 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations pursuant to the CAA that, among other things, require PSD preconstruction and Title V operating permits for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions are also required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards that are being established by the states or, in. 31. Table of Contents. some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States, which include certain of our operations. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rule includes first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, the EPA has recently indicated that it intends to reconsider certain aspects of this rule, and in June 2017 issued a proposed rulemaking that would stay the requirements of the methane rule for a period of two years. The EPA has also announced that it intends to impose methane emission standards for existing sources as well but, to date, has not yet issued a proposal. Compliance with these rules will require enhanced record-keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment, such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules will also likely require additional personnel time to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. These new and proposed rules could result in increased compliance costs on our operations.. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap-and-trade programs. These programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. Most recently, the United States became one of almost 200 nations that, in December 2015, agreed to the Paris Agreement, which requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and/or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, proppants and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. The EPA has also issued final regulations under the CAA establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing (although the Trump Administration has indicated an intent to review this rule), and advanced notice of proposed rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and also finalized rules in 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. In addition, the BLM finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands (which was challenged in a U.S. federal trial court, resulting in a decision in June 2016 against the rule, an appeal of that decision, and a U.S. federal appeals court ruling in September 2017 dismissing the appeals and vacating the trial court decision); the rule is currently the subject of a December 2017 final rulemaking by the BLM to rescind it. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. It is unclear how any additional federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities may affect our operations.. 32. Table of Contents. Certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA report concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water resources in the United States, although there are above-and-below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water resources. Other governmental agencies, including the United States Department of Energy and the United States Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in May 2013, the Railroad Commission of Texas issued a \"well integrity rule,\" which updates the requirements for drilling, putting pipe down and cementing wells. The rule also includes new testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. The well integrity rule took effect in January 2014. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of saltwater gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. For example, in 2015, the United States Geological Study identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of saltwater disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission of Texas published a new rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well.. We dispose of large volumes of saltwater gathered from our drilling and production operations pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of saltwater gathered from our drilling and production activities by limiting volumes, disposal rates, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel. 33. Table of Contents. resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past three years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations.. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. At December 31, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under its credit facility. Interest is calculated under the terms of CRP's credit agreement based on a LIBOR spread. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties.. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including:. • recoverable reserves;. • future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials;. • operating costs; and. • potential environmental and other liabilities.. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an \"as is\" basis.. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations.. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical. In addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3-D seismic data, requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our activities that could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. 34. Table of Contents. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have recently adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from such margin requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flow.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us and our financial condition.. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations, the impact of which is not clear at this time.. The standardized measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. As a result, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received, and the standardized measure of our estimated reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 35. Table of Contents. A security interruption or failure with respect to our information technology systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively and support our operations, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new or updated systems, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business.. Any breach of our network may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our customers' or employees' personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could harm our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost revenues, fines or lawsuits.. Moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. Any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits.. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations.. We are subject to laws, regulations and rules enacted by national, regional and local governments and NASDAQ. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC, NASDAQ and other legal or regulatory requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws, regulations and rules may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws, regulations and rules and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances;. • tax effects of stock-based compensation;. • costs related to intercompany restructurings;. • changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or. • lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates.. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal and state authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1 (commonly referred to as the \"Jobs Act\"), a comprehensive tax reform bill that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Jobs Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite net operating loss carryforward, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact of this tax reform legislation, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the Jobs Act could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The impact of this tax reform legislation on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. 36. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business prospects and our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $390.8 million of total long-term debt and additional borrowing capacity of $474.1 million under CRP's revolving credit facility (after giving effect to $0.9 million of outstanding letters of credit). Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities;. • limit management's discretion in operating our business and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to downturns and adverse developments in our business and the economy generally;. • limit our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other expenses or to refinance existing indebtedness;. • place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;. • make it more likely that a reduction in CRP's borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require CRP to repay a portion of its then-outstanding bank borrowings;. • make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as the indebtedness under CRP's revolving credit facility may vary with prevailing interest rates;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and. • make it more difficult for CRP to satisfy its obligations under its debt and increase the risk that we may default on its debt obligations.. CRP may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks that we may face.. Subject to the restrictions in the instruments governing CRP's outstanding indebtedness (including CRP's revolving credit facility and senior notes), CRP and its subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness (including secured indebtedness) in the future. Although the instruments governing CRP's outstanding indebtedness do contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions will be subject to waiver and a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. As of December 31, 2017, CRP had additional borrowing capacity of $474.1 million under its revolving credit facility (after giving effect to $0.9 million of outstanding letters of credit), all of which would be secured if borrowed.. Any increase in CRP's level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation:. • we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on CRP's outstanding indebtedness;. • increases in CRP's outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and. • depending on the levels of CRP's outstanding indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of CRP's indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy CRP's obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. CRP's ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance its indebtedness depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit CRP to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on CRP's indebtedness.. 37. Table of Contents. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance CRP's indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require CRP to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm CRP's ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. The agreements governing CRP's indebtedness restrict CRP's ability to dispose of assets and CRP's use of the proceeds from such disposition. CRP may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit CRP to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Restrictions in CRP's existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and ability to engage in certain activities.. CRP's credit agreement and the indenture governing its senior notes contain a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit CRP's ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make loans to others;. • make investments;. • merge or consolidate with another entity;. • make certain payments;. • hedge future production or interest rates;. • incur liens;. • sell assets; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. In addition, CRP's credit agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. As of December 31, 2017, we were in full compliance with such financial ratios and covenants.. The restrictions in CRP's debt agreements may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive imposed on CRP.. A breach of any covenant in CRP's debt agreements would result in a default under the applicable agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under CRP's credit agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. If CRP is unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing its indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that CRP has borrowed.. Any default under the agreements governing CRP's indebtedness that is not cured or waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of any such indebtedness, could make CRP unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on such indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on CRP's indebtedness, or if CRP otherwise fails to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the agreements governing CRP's indebtedness, CRP could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default:. • the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest;. 38. Table of Contents. • the lenders under CRP's revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers under CRP's revolving credit facility to avoid CRP being in default. If CRP breaches the covenants under its revolving credit facility and seeks a waiver, CRP may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, CRP would be in default under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Any significant reduction in the borrowing base under CRP's revolving credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations.. CRP's revolving credit facility limits the amounts CRP can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine semiannually on April 1 and October 1. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, projected revenues from, and asset values of, the oil and natural gas properties securing the loan. The borrowing base will automatically be decreased by an amount equal to 25% of the aggregate notional amount of issued permitted senior unsecured notes. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under CRP's revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. The borrowing base under the revolving credit facility is $575 million; however, on December 1, 2017, CRP entered into an amendment to the credit agreement to, among other things, reflect CRP's election to voluntarily reduce the commitments and borrowing base under the credit agreement to $475.0 million.. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under CRP's revolving credit facility (or a replacement facility) as a result of a decrease in the borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, CRP could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service CRP's indebtedness.. If we experience liquidity concerns, we could face a downgrade in our debt ratings which could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, current or future financings or trade credit.. Our ability to obtain financings and trade credit and the terms of any financings or trade credit is, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access financings or trade credit and increase our borrowing costs.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock and Capital Structure. Our only significant asset is our current ownership of an approximate 94% membership interest in CRP. Distributions from CRP may not be sufficient to allow us to pay any dividends on our Class A Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations.. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than our current ownership of an approximate 94% membership interest in CRP. We will depend on CRP for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations or to pay any dividends with respect to our Class A Common Stock. Subject to certain restrictions, CRP generally will be required to (i) make pro rata distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and (ii) reimburse us for certain corporate and other overhead expenses. However, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing future indebtedness of CRP, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of CRP may limit our ability to obtain cash from CRP. The earnings from, or other available assets of, CRP may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our Class A Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations.. 39. Table of Contents. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected.. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine on those internal controls. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which may significantly affect our financial condition.. We completed our initial public offering in February 2016. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. We also incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. These rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers.. If the price of our Class A Common Stock fluctuates significantly, your investment could lose value.. Although our Class A Common Stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we cannot assure you that an active public market will continue for our Class A Common Stock. If an active public market for our Class A Common Stock does not continue, the trading price and liquidity of our Class A Common Stock will be materially and adversely affected. If there is a thin trading market or \"float\" for our Class A Common Stock, the market price for our Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our Class A Common Stock would be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our Class A Common Stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, investors may be unable to liquidate their investment in us. Furthermore, the stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations, and the price of our Class A Common Stock could fluctuate widely in response to several factors, including:. Factors affecting the trading price of our Class A Common Stock may include:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • success of competitors;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or its markets in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us;. • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;. • the volume of securities available for public sale;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. 40. Table of Contents. • general economic and political conditions such as recession; interest rate, fuel price, and international currency fluctuations; and acts of war or terrorism.. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our Class A Common Stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our securities adversely, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline.. The trading market for our securities will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our securities adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our securities would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on it, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Riverstone and its affiliates own a significant percentage of our outstanding voting common stock.. Riverstone and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 36% of our voting common stock. As long as Riverstone and its affiliates own or control a significant percentage of outstanding voting power, they will have the ability to strongly influence all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, any amendment of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the \"Charter\") or amended and restated bylaws (the \"Bylaws\"), or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. The interests of Riverstone and its affiliates may not align with the interests of our other stockholders. Riverstone is in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Riverstone and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our Charter provides that we renounce any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of our officers and directors and their respective affiliates and each such party shall not have any obligation to offer us those opportunities unless presented to one of our directors or officers in his or her capacity as a director or officer.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our Charter and Bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our Charter and Bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • the ability of our board of directors to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that an annual meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings;. • providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and. 41. Table of Contents. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our board of directors and management.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding voting common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting common stock. Any provision of our Charter or Bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their securities and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities.. Non-U.S. holders may be subject to U.S. income tax with respect to gain on disposition of their Class A Common Stock.. We believe that we are a United States real property holding corporation (a \"USRPHC\"). As a result, Non-U.S. holders (defined below in the section entitled \"Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations\") that own (or are treated as owning under constructive ownership rules) more than a specified amount of our Class A Common Stock during a specified time period may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a sale, exchange, or other disposition of such Class A Common Stock and may be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return. If you are a Non-U.S. holder, we urge you to consult your tax advisors regarding the tax consequences of such treatment."
