[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are a holding company that conducts all of our business operations through subsidiaries, primarily Houston Electric and CERC. We also own interests in Enable. The following, along with any additional legal proceedings identified or incorporated by reference in Item 3 of this report, summarizes the principal risk factors associated with our holding company, the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries and our interests in Enable. However, additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or not currently believed by management to be material may also adversely affect our businesses.. Risk Factors Associated with Our Consolidated Financial Condition. We are a holding company with no operations or operating assets of our own. As a result, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries and from Enable to meet our payment obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock, and provisions of applicable law or contractual restrictions could limit the amount of those distributions.. We derive all of our operating income from, and hold all of our assets through, our subsidiaries, including our interests in Enable. As a result, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries and Enable to meet our payment obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock. In general, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. In addition, provisions of applicable law, such as those limiting the legal sources of dividends, limit our subsidiaries' and Enable's ability to make payments or other distributions to us, and our subsidiaries or Enable could agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions.  For a discussion of risks that may impact the amount of cash distributions we receive with respect to our interests in Enable, please read \"  -  Additional Risk Factors Affecting Our Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP  -  Our cash flows will be adversely impacted if we receive less cash distributions from Enable than we currently expect\" and \"  -  Other Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses or Our Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP  -  Our or Enable's potential business strategies and strategic initiatives, including merger and acquisition activities and the disposition of assets or businesses, may not be completed or perform as expected.\". Our right to receive any assets of any subsidiary, and therefore the right of our creditors to participate in those assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any subsidiary, our rights as a creditor would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of the subsidiary senior to that held by us.. If we are unable to arrange future financings on acceptable terms, our ability to refinance existing indebtedness could be limited.. Our businesses are capital intensive. We depend (i) on long-term debt to finance a portion of our capital expenditures and refinance our existing debt, (ii) on short-term borrowings through our revolving credit facilities and commercial paper programs and (iii) on distributions from our interests in Enable to satisfy liquidity needs to the extent not satisfied by cash flow from our business operations; we may also depend on the net proceeds from a potential sale of common units we own in Enable. As of December 31, 2017, we had $8.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, which includes $1.9 billion of non-recourse Securitization Bonds. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $50 million principal amount of this debt is required to be paid through 2020. This amount excludes principal repayments of approximately $1.1 billion on Securitization Bonds, for which dedicated revenue streams exist. Our future financing activities may be significantly affected by, among other things:. • general economic and capital market conditions;. • credit availability from financial institutions and other lenders;. • volatility or fluctuations in distributions from Enable's units or volatility in Enable's unit price;. • investor confidence in us and the markets in which we operate;. • maintenance of acceptable credit ratings;. • market expectations regarding our future earnings and cash flows;. • our ability to access capital markets on reasonable terms;. 17. • our exposure to GenOn (formerly known as RRI Energy, Inc., Reliant Energy and RRI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NRG and currently the subject of bankruptcy proceedings, in connection with certain indemnification obligations;. • incremental collateral that may be required due to regulation of derivatives; and. • provisions of relevant tax and securities laws.. As of December 31, 2017, Houston Electric had approximately $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of general mortgage bonds outstanding under the General Mortgage, including approximately $118 million held in trust to secure pollution control bonds for which we are obligated.  Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, Houston Electric had approximately $102 million aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds outstanding under the Mortgage. Houston Electric may issue additional general mortgage bonds on the basis of retired bonds, 70% of property additions or cash deposited with the trustee. Approximately $4.2 billion of additional first mortgage bonds and general mortgage bonds in the aggregate could be issued on the basis of retired bonds and 70% of property additions as of December 31, 2017. However, Houston Electric has contractually agreed that it will not issue additional first mortgage bonds, subject to certain exceptions.. Our current credit ratings are discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Other Matters  -  Impact on Liquidity of a Downgrade in Credit Ratings\" in Item 7 of Part II of this report. These credit ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time and one or more of these ratings may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. We note that these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any future reduction or withdrawal of one or more of our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our ability to access capital on acceptable terms.. An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity and cost method investments could reduce our earnings.. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired.  Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.. For investments we account for under the equity or cost method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of such investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. For example, if Enable's unit price, distributions or earnings were to decline, and that decline is deemed to be other than temporary, we could determine that we are unable to recover the carrying value of our equity investment in Enable. Considerable judgment is used in determining if an impairment loss is other than temporary and the amount of any impairment. A sustained low Enable common unit price could result in our recording impairment charges in the future.. Should our annual impairment test or another periodic impairment test, as described above, indicate the fair value of our assets is less than the carrying value, we would be required to take a non-cash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. A non-cash impairment charge could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Increased utilization due to changing demographics, poor investment performance of the pension plan and other factors adversely affecting the calculation of pension liabilities could unfavorably impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.. We maintain a qualified defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees. Our costs of providing this plan are dependent upon a number of factors including the investment returns on plan assets, the level of interest rates used to calculate the funded status of the plan, our contributions to the plan and government regulations with respect to funding requirements and the calculation of plan liabilities. Funding requirements may increase and we may be required to make unplanned contributions in the event of a decline in the market value of plan assets, a decline in the interest rates used to calculate the present value of future plan obligations or government regulations that increase minimum funding requirements or the pension liability. In addition to affecting our funding requirements, each of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.. 18. The costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees may increase substantially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We provide health care benefits to eligible employees and retirees through self-insured plans. In recent years, the costs of providing these benefits have risen due to increasing health care costs and increased levels of large individual health care claims and overall health care claims, and we anticipate that such costs will continue to rise. Further, the effects of health care reform or any future legislative changes could also materially affect our health care benefit programs and costs. Any potential changes and resulting cost impacts, which are likely to be passed on to us, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. Our costs of providing these benefits could also increase materially in the future should there be a material reduction in the amount of the recovery of these costs through our rates or should significant delays develop in the timing of the recovery of such costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity.. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business by us, our subsidiaries or Enable could result in financial losses that could negatively impact our results of operations and those of our subsidiaries or Enable.. We and our subsidiaries use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage our commodity, weather and financial market risks. Enable may also use such instruments from time to time to manage its commodity and financial market risks. We, including our subsidiaries, or Enable could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values or ineffectiveness of these contracts or should a counterparty fail to perform. Additionally, in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.. If we redeem the ZENS prior to their maturity in 2029, our ultimate tax liability and redemption payments would result in significant cash payments, which would adversely impact our cash flows. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact our cash flows.. We have approximately $828 million principal amount of ZENS outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We own shares of TW Securities equal to approximately 100% of the reference shares used to calculate our obligation to the holders of the ZENS. We may redeem all of the ZENS at any time at a redemption amount per ZENS equal to the higher of the contingent principal amount per ZENS ($505 million in the aggregate, or $35.54 per ZENS, as of December 31, 2017) or the sum of the current market value of the reference shares attributable to one ZENS at the time of redemption.  In the event we redeem the ZENS, in addition to the redemption amount, we would be required to pay deferred taxes related to the ZENS.  Our ultimate tax liability related to the ZENS continues to increase by the amount of the tax benefit realized each year. If the ZENS had been redeemed on December 31, 2017, deferred taxes of approximately $521 million would have been payable by us in 2017, based on 2017 tax rates in effect. In addition, if all the shares of TW Securities had been sold on December 31, 2017 in order to fund the aggregate redemption amount, capital gains taxes of approximately $297 million would have been payable by us in 2017, based on 2017 tax rates in effect. Similarly, a significant amount of exchanges of ZENS by ZENS holders could adversely impact our cash flows. This could happen if our creditworthiness were to drop or the market for the ZENS were to become illiquid, or for some other reason. While funds for the payment of cash upon exchange of ZENS could be obtained from the sale of the shares of TW Securities that we own or from other sources, ZENS exchanges result in a cash outflow because tax deferrals related to the ZENS and TW Securities shares would typically cease when ZENS are exchanged and TW Securities shares are sold.. Risk Factors Affecting Our Electric Transmission & Distribution Business. Rate regulation of Houston Electric's business may delay or deny Houston Electric's ability to earn an expected return and fully recover its costs.. Houston Electric's rates are regulated by certain municipalities and the PUCT based on an analysis of its invested capital, its expenses and other factors in a test year in comprehensive base rate proceedings (i.e., general rate cases) subject to periodic review and adjustment. Each of these rate proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of Houston Electric's control. The rates that Houston Electric is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time, which is referred to as \"regulatory lag.\". Though several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been implemented to reduce the effects of regulatory lag, these adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body's approval and are subject to limitations that may reduce Houston Electric's ability to adjust rates. For example, the DCRF mechanism adjusts an electric utility's rates for increases in net distribution-invested capital (e.g., distribution plant and intangible plant and communication equipment) since its last comprehensive base rate proceeding, but Houston Electric may only make a DCRF filing once per calendar year. The TCOS. 19. mechanism allows a transmission service provider to update its wholesale transmission rates to reflect changes in transmission-related invested capital, but is only available twice per calendar year.. Houston Electric can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates. Notwithstanding the application of the rate mechanisms discussed above, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of Houston Electric's costs or enable Houston Electric to earn an expected return. In addition, changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact Houston Electric's ability to recover its costs in a timely manner. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow Houston Electric to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Disruptions at power generation facilities owned by third parties could interrupt Houston Electric's sales of transmission and distribution services.. Houston Electric transmits and distributes to customers of REPs electric power that the REPs obtain from power generation facilities owned by third parties. Houston Electric does not own or operate any power generation facilities. If power generation is disrupted or if power generation capacity is inadequate, Houston Electric's sales of transmission and distribution services may be diminished or interrupted, and its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Houston Electric's revenues and results of operations are seasonal.. A significant portion of Houston Electric's revenues is derived from rates that it collects from each REP based on the amount of electricity it delivers on behalf of such REP. Thus, Houston Electric's revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in electricity usage, with revenues generally being higher during the warmer months. Unusually mild weather in the warmer months could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Conversely, extreme warm weather conditions could increase our results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring.. Houston Electric could be subject to higher costs and fines or other sanctions as a result of mandatory reliability standards.. The FERC has jurisdiction with respect to ensuring the reliability of electric transmission service, including transmission facilities owned by Houston Electric and other utilities within ERCOT. The FERC has designated the NERC as the ERO to promulgate standards, under FERC oversight, for all owners, operators and users of the bulk power system. The FERC has approved the delegation by the NERC of authority for reliability in ERCOT to the Texas RE, a Texas non-profit corporation. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject Houston Electric to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures.  In addition, if Houston Electric were to be found to be in noncompliance with applicable mandatory reliability standards, it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.. A substantial portion of Houston Electric's receivables is concentrated in a small number of REPs, and any delay or default in such payments could adversely affect Houston Electric's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. Houston Electric's receivables from the distribution of electricity are collected from REPs that supply the electricity Houston Electric distributes to their customers. As of December 31, 2017, Houston Electric did business with approximately 68 REPs. Adverse economic conditions, structural problems in the market served by ERCOT or financial difficulties of one or more REPs could impair the ability of these REPs to pay for Houston Electric's services or could cause them to delay such payments. Houston Electric depends on these REPs to remit payments on a timely basis. Applicable regulatory provisions require that customers be shifted to another REP or a provider of last resort if a REP cannot make timely payments. Applicable PUCT regulations significantly limit the extent to which Houston Electric can apply normal commercial terms or otherwise seek credit protection from firms desiring to provide retail electric service in its service territory, and Houston Electric thus remains at risk for payments related to services provided prior to the shift to another REP or the provider of last resort. A significant portion of Houston Electric's billed receivables from REPs are from affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp., formerly known as TCEH Corp. Houston Electric's aggregate billed receivables balance from REPs as of December 31, 2017 was $215 million Approximately 34% and 12% of this amount was owed by affiliates of NRG and Vistra Energy Corp., respectively.  Any delay or default in payment by REPs could adversely affect Houston Electric's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. If a REP were unable to meet its obligations, it could consider, among various options, restructuring under the bankruptcy laws, in which event such REP might seek to avoid honoring its obligations, and claims might be made by creditors involving payments Houston Electric had received from such REP.. 20. The AMS deployed throughout Houston Electric's service territory may experience unexpected problems with respect to the timely receipt of accurate metering data.. Houston Electric has deployed an AMS throughout its service territory, which integrates equipment and computer software from various vendors to eliminate the need for physical meter readings to be taken at consumers' premises, such as monthly readings for billing purposes and special readings associated with a customer's change in REPs or the connection or disconnection of electric service.  Unanticipated difficulties could be encountered during the operation of the AMS, including failures or inadequacy of equipment or software, difficulties in integrating the various components of the AMS, changes in technology, cyber-security issues and factors outside the control of Houston Electric, which could result in delayed or inaccurate metering data that might lead to delays or inaccuracies in the calculation and imposition of delivery or other charges, which could have a material adverse effect on Houston Electric's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risk Factors Affecting Our Natural Gas Distribution and Energy Services Businesses. Rate regulation of CERC's business may delay or deny CERC's ability to earn an expected return and fully recover its costs.. CERC's rates for NGD are regulated by certain municipalities (in Texas only) and state commissions based on an analysis of NGD's invested capital, expenses and other factors in a test year (often either fully or partially historic) in comprehensive base rate proceedings, subject to periodic review and adjustment. Each of these proceedings is subject to third-party intervention and appeal, and the timing of a general base rate proceeding may be out of CERC's control. Thus, the rates that CERC is allowed to charge may not match its costs at any given time, resulting in what is referred to as \"regulatory lag.\". Though several interim rate adjustment mechanisms have been approved by jurisdictional regulatory authorities and implemented by NGD to reduce the effects of regulatory lag, such adjustment mechanisms are subject to the applicable regulatory body's approval and are subject to certain limitations that may reduce NGD's ability to adjust its rates.. Arkansas allows public utilities to elect to have their rates regulated pursuant to a FRP, providing for a utility's base rates to be adjusted once a year. In each of Louisiana, Mississippi and Oklahoma, NGD makes annual filings utilizing various formula rate mechanisms that adjust rates based on a comparison of authorized return to actual return to achieve the allowed return rates in those jurisdictions. Additionally, in Minnesota, the MPUC implemented a full revenue decoupling pilot program, which separates approved revenues from the amount of natural gas used by its customers. The effectiveness of these filings and programs depends on the approval of the applicable state regulatory body.. In Texas, NGD's Houston, South Texas, Beaumont/East Texas and Texas Coast divisions each submit annual GRIP filings to recover the incremental capital investments made in the preceding year. NGD must file a general rate case no later than five years after the initial GRIP implementation date.. NGD can make no assurance that filings for such mechanisms will result in favorable adjustments to rates.  Notwithstanding the application of the rate mechanisms discussed above, the regulatory process by which rates are determined is subject to change as a result of the legislative process or rulemaking, as the case may be, and may not always be available or result in rates that will produce recovery of NGD's costs or enable NGD to earn an expected return. In addition, changes to the interim adjustment mechanisms could result in an increase in regulatory lag or otherwise impact NGD's ability to recover its costs in a timely manner. Additionally, inherent in the regulatory process is some level of risk that jurisdictional regulatory authorities may initiate investigations of the prudence of operating expenses incurred or capital investments made by NGD and deny the full recovery of NGD's cost of service or the full recovery of incurred natural gas costs in rates. To the extent the regulatory process does not allow NGD to make a full and timely recovery of appropriate costs, its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Access to natural gas supplies and pipeline transmission and storage capacity are essential components of reliable service for CERC's customers.. CERC depends on third-party service providers to maintain an adequate supply of natural gas and for available storage and intrastate and interstate pipeline capacity to satisfy NGD's customers' needs, all of which are critical to system reliability. CERC purchases substantially all of NGD's natural gas supply from intrastate and interstate pipelines. If CERC is unable to secure an independent natural gas supply of its own or through its affiliates or if third-party service providers fail to timely deliver natural gas to meet NGD's requirements, the resulting decrease in CERC's natural gas supply in its service territories could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, a significant disruption, whether through reduced intrastate and interstate pipeline transmission or storage capacity or other events affecting natural gas supply, including, but not limited to, operational failures, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, acts of terrorism or cyber-attacks or changes in legislative. 21. or regulatory requirements, could also adversely affect CERC's business. Further, to the extent that CERC's natural gas requirements cannot be met through access to or continued use of existing natural gas infrastructure or if additional infrastructure, including onshore and offshore exploration and production facilities, gathering and processing systems and pipeline and storage capacity is not constructed at a rate that satisfies demand, then CERC's NGD growth could be negatively affected.. CERC's NGD and Energy Services business, including transportation and storage, whether through the use of AMAs or other arrangements, are subject to fluctuations in notional natural gas prices as well as geographic and seasonal natural gas price differentials, which could affect the ability of CERC's suppliers and customers to meet their obligations or otherwise adversely affect CERC's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. CERC is subject to risk associated with changes in the notional price of natural gas as well as geographic and seasonal natural gas price differentials that impact our business, including transportation and storage, whether through the use of AMAs or other arrangements. Increases in natural gas prices might affect CERC's ability to collect balances due from its customers and, for NGD, could create the potential for uncollectible accounts expense to exceed the recoverable levels built into CERC's tariff rates. In addition, a sustained period of high natural gas prices could (i) decrease demand for natural gas in the areas in which CERC operates, thereby resulting in decreased sales and revenues and (ii) increase the risk that CERC's suppliers or customers fail or are unable to meet their obligations. An increase in natural gas prices would also increase CERC's working capital requirements by increasing the investment that must be made to maintain natural gas inventory levels. Additionally, a decrease in natural gas prices could increase the amount of collateral that CERC must provide under its hedging arrangements. AMAs may be subject to regulatory approval, and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms.. A decline in CERC's credit rating could result in CERC having to provide collateral under its shipping or hedging arrangements or to purchase natural gas, which consequently would increase its cash requirements and adversely affect its financial condition.. If CERC's credit rating were to decline, it might be required to post cash collateral under its shipping or hedging arrangements or to purchase natural gas. If a credit rating downgrade and the resultant cash collateral requirement were to occur at a time when CERC was experiencing significant working capital requirements or otherwise lacked liquidity, CERC's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. CERC's revenues and results of operations are seasonal.. A substantial portion of CERC's revenues is derived from natural gas sales. Thus, CERC's revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other changes in natural gas usage, with revenues being higher during the winter months.  Unusually mild weather in the winter months could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition.  Conversely, extreme cold weather conditions could increase our results of operations in a manner that would not likely be annually recurring.. The states in which CERC provides regulated local natural gas distribution may, either through legislation or rules, adopt restrictions regarding organization, financing and affiliate transactions that could have significant adverse impacts on CERC's ability to operate.. From time to time, proposals have been put forth in some of the states in which CERC does business to give state regulatory authorities increased jurisdiction and scrutiny over organization, capital structure, intracompany relationships and lines of business that could be pursued by registered holding companies and their affiliates that operate in those states. Some of these frameworks attempt to regulate financing activities, acquisitions and divestitures, and arrangements between the utilities and their affiliates, and to restrict the level of non-utility business that can be conducted within the holding company structure. Additionally, they may impose record-keeping, record access, employee training and reporting requirements related to affiliate transactions and reporting in the event of certain downgrading of the utility's credit rating.. These regulatory frameworks could have adverse effects on CERC's ability to conduct its utility operations, to finance its business and to provide cost-effective utility service. In addition, if more than one state adopts restrictions on similar activities, it may be difficult for CERC and us to comply with competing regulatory requirements.. CERC's businesses must compete with alternate energy sources, which could result in CERC marketing less natural gas and have an adverse impact on CERC's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. CERC competes primarily with alternate energy sources such as electricity and other fuel sources. In some areas, intrastate pipelines, other natural gas distributors and marketers also compete directly with CERC for natural gas sales to end users. In. 22. addition, as a result of federal regulatory changes affecting interstate pipelines, natural gas marketers operating on these pipelines may be able to bypass CERC's facilities and market, sell and/or transport natural gas directly to commercial and industrial customers. Any reduction in the amount of natural gas marketed, sold or transported by CERC as a result of competition may have an adverse impact on CERC's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risk Factors Affecting Our Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP. We hold a substantial limited partner interest in Enable (54.1% of the outstanding common units representing limited partner interests in Enable as of December 31, 2017), as well as 50% of the management rights in Enable's general partner and a 40% interest in the incentive distribution rights held by Enable's general partner. As of December 31, 2017, we owned an aggregate of 14,520,000 Series A Preferred Units representing limited partner interests in Enable.  Accordingly, our future earnings, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will be affected by the performance of Enable, the amount of cash distributions we receive from Enable and the value of our interests in Enable.  Factors that may have a material impact on Enable's performance and cash distributions, and, hence, the value of our interests in Enable, include the risk factors outlined below, as well as the risks described elsewhere under \"Risk Factors\" that are applicable to Enable.. Our cash flows will be adversely impacted if we receive less cash distributions from Enable than we currently expect.. Both CERC Corp. and OGE hold their limited partner interests in Enable in the form of common units. We also hold Series A Preferred Units in Enable.  For its Series A Preferred Units, Enable is expected to pay $0.625 per Series A Preferred Unit, or $2.50 per Series A Preferred Unit on an annualized basis. However, distributions on each Series A Preferred Unit are not mandatory and are non-cumulative in the event distributions are not declared on the Series A Preferred Units. Enable is expected to pay a minimum quarterly distribution of $0.2875 per unit, or $1.15 per unit on an annualized basis, on its outstanding common units to the extent it has sufficient cash from operations after establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to its general partner and its affiliates (referred to as \"available cash\"). Enable may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable it (i) to pay distributions on the Series A Preferred Units or (ii) maintain or increase the distributions on its common units. Additionally, distributions on the Series A Preferred Units reduce the amount of available cash Enable has to pay distributions on its common units. The amount of cash Enable can distribute on its common units and Series A Preferred Units will principally depend upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the fees and gross margins it realizes with respect to the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil that it handles;. • the prices of, levels of production of, and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • the volume of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil it gathers, compresses, treats, dehydrates, processes, fractionates, transports and stores;. • the relationship among prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • cash calls and settlements of hedging positions;. • margin requirements on open price risk management assets and liabilities;. • the level of competition from other companies offering midstream services;. • adverse effects of governmental and environmental regulation;. • the level of its operation and maintenance expenses and general and administrative costs; and. • prevailing economic conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash Enable will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including:. • the level and timing of its capital expenditures;. • the cost of acquisitions;. • its debt service requirements and other liabilities;. 23. • fluctuations in its working capital needs;. • its ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in its debt agreements;. • the amount of cash reserves established by its general partner;. • distributions paid on its Series A Preferred Units;. • any impact on cash levels should any sale of our investment in Enable occur; and. • other business risks affecting its cash levels.. The amount of cash Enable has available for distribution to us on its common units and Series A Preferred Units depends primarily on its cash flow rather than on its profitability, which may prevent Enable from making distributions, even during periods in which Enable records net income.. The amount of cash Enable has available for distribution on its common units and Series A Preferred Units, depends primarily upon its cash flows and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, Enable may make cash distributions during periods when it records losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when it records net earnings for financial accounting purposes.. Enable's Series A Preferred Units are required to be redeemed in certain circumstances if they are not eligible for trading on the NYSE, and Enable may not have sufficient funds to redeem its Series A Preferred Units if required to do so.. As a holder of Enable's Series A Preferred Units, we may request that Enable list those units for trading on the NYSE. If Enable is unable to list the Series A Preferred Units in certain circumstances, it will be required to redeem the Series A Preferred Units. There can be no assurance that Enable would have sufficient financial resources available to satisfy its obligation to redeem the Series A Preferred Units. In addition, mandatory redemption of the Series A Preferred Units could have a material adverse effect on Enable's business, financial position, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to its unitholders.. We are not able to exercise control over Enable, which entails certain risks.. Enable is controlled jointly by CERC Corp. and OGE, who each own 50% of the management rights in the general partner of Enable.  The board of directors of Enable's general partner is composed of an equal number of directors appointed by OGE and by us, the president and chief executive officer of Enable's general partner and three directors who are independent as defined under the independence standards established by the NYSE.  Accordingly, we are not able to exercise control over Enable.. Although we jointly control Enable with OGE, we may have conflicts of interest with Enable that could subject us to claims that we have breached our fiduciary duty to Enable and its unitholders.. CERC Corp. and OGE each own 50% of the management rights in Enable's general partner, as well as limited partner interests in Enable, and interests in the incentive distribution rights held by Enable's general partner.  We also hold Series A Preferred Units in Enable.  Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Enable and its unitholders. Our joint control of the general partner of Enable may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary or contractual duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to Enable. In resolving these conflicts, we may favor our own interests and the interests of our affiliates over the interests of Enable and its unitholders as long as the resolution does not conflict with Enable's partnership agreement. These circumstances could subject us to claims that, in favoring our own interests and those of our affiliates, we breached a fiduciary or contractual duty to Enable or its unitholders.. Enable's contracts are subject to renewal risks.. As contracts with its existing suppliers and customers expire, Enable negotiates extensions or renewals of those contracts or enter into new contracts with other suppliers and customers. Enable may be unable to extend or renew existing contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable commercial terms, if at all. Depending on prevailing market conditions at the time of an extension or renewal, gathering and processing customers with fee based contracts may desire to enter into contracts under different fee arrangements and gathering and processing customers with contracts that contain minimum volume commitments may desire to. 24. enter into contracts without minimum volume commitments. Likewise, Enable's transportation and storage customers may choose not to extend or renew expiring contracts based on the economics of the related areas of production. To the extent Enable is unable to renew or replace its expiring contracts on terms that are favorable, if at all, or successfully manage its overall contract mix over time, its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. Enable depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its gathering and processing revenues and its transportation and storage revenues. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, these customers could result in a decline in sales of its gathering and processing or transportation and storage services and adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 57% of Enable's gathered natural gas volumes were attributable to the affiliates of Continental, Vine, GeoSouthern, XTO Energy and Tapstone Energy and 51% of its transportation and storage service revenues were attributable to our affiliates or affiliates of Spire, American Electric Power Company, OGE and Continental. The loss of all or even a portion of the gathering and processing or transportation and storage services for any of these customers, the failure to extend or replace these contracts or the extension or replacement of these contracts on less favorable terms, as a result of competition or otherwise, could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable's businesses are dependent, in part, on the drilling and production decisions of others.. Enable's businesses are dependent on the drilling and production of natural gas and crude oil. Enable has no control over the level of drilling activity in its areas of operation, or the amount of natural gas, NGL or crude oil reserves associated with wells connected to its systems. In addition, as the rate at which production from wells currently connected to its systems naturally declines over time, Enable's gross margin associated with those wells will also decline. To maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation systems and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, Enable's customers must continually obtain new natural gas, NGL and crude oil supplies. The primary factors affecting Enable's ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil and attract new customers to its assets are the level of successful drilling activity near its systems, its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and its ability to expand its capacity as needed. If Enable is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on its gathering, processing, transportation and storage facilities would decline, which could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. Enable has no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things:. • the availability and cost of capital;. • prevailing and projected commodity prices, including the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil;. • levels of reserves;. • geological considerations;. • environmental or other governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and. • the availability of drilling rigs and other costs of production and equipment.. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of new natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as commodity prices decrease. In general terms, the prices of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond Enable's control. Because of these and other factors, even if new reserves are known to exist in areas served by Enable's assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Declines in natural gas, NGL or crude oil prices can have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity and, if sustained, could lead to decreases in such activity. Sustained low natural gas, NGL or crude oil prices could also lead producers to shut in production from their existing wells. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in Enable's areas of operation could lead to further reductions in the utilization of its systems, which could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. 25. In addition, it may be more difficult to maintain or increase the current volumes on Enable's gathering systems and in its processing plants, as several of the formations in the unconventional resource plays in which it operates generally have higher initial production rates and steeper production decline curves than wells in more conventional basins. Should Enable determine that the economics of its gathering assets do not justify the capital expenditures needed to grow or maintain volumes associated therewith, Enable may reduce such capital expenditures, which could cause revenues associated with these assets to decline over time.. Enable's industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable competes with similar enterprises in its respective areas of operation. The principal elements of competition are rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. Enable's competitors include large energy companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil than Enable. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Enable provides to its customers. Excess pipeline capacity in the regions served by Enable's interstate pipelines could also increase competition and adversely impact Enable's ability to renew or enter into new contracts with respect to its available capacity when existing contracts expire. In addition, Enable's customers that are significant producers of natural gas or crude oil may develop their own gathering, processing, transportation and storage systems in lieu of using Enable's systems. Enable's ability to renew or replace existing contracts with its customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors and customers. Further, natural gas utilized as a fuel competes with other forms of energy available to end users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas gathering, processing, transportation and storage services. All of these competitive pressures could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable may not be able to recover the costs of its substantial planned investment in capital improvements and additions, and the actual cost of such improvements and additions may be significantly higher than it anticipates.. Enable's business plan calls for investment in capital improvements and additions. In Enable's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, Enable stated that it expects that its expansion capital could range from approximately $450 million to $600 million and its maintenance capital could range from approximately $95 million to $125 million for the year ending December 31, 2018.. The construction of additions or modifications to Enable's existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond Enable's control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed its estimates. These projects may not be completed at the planned cost, on schedule or at all. The construction of new pipeline, gathering, treating, processing, compression or other facilities is subject to construction cost overruns due to labor costs, costs and availability of equipment and materials such as steel, labor shortages or weather or other delays, inflation or other factors, which could be material. In addition, the construction of these facilities is typically subject to the receipt of approvals and permits from various regulatory agencies. Those agencies may not approve the projects in a timely manner, if at all, or may impose restrictions or conditions on the projects that could potentially prevent a project from proceeding, lengthen its expected completion schedule and/or increase its anticipated cost. Moreover, Enable's revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if Enable expands an existing pipeline or constructs a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and Enable may not receive any material increases in revenues or cash flows until the project is completed. In addition, Enable may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, the new facilities may not be able to achieve Enable's expected investment return, which could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. In connection with Enable's capital investments, Enable may estimate, or engage a third party to estimate, potential reserves in areas to be developed prior to constructing facilities in those areas. To the extent Enable relies on estimates of future production in deciding to construct additions to its systems, those estimates may prove to be inaccurate either in volume or timing due to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production. To the extent estimates of the volume of new production are inaccurate, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient throughput to achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. To the extent estimates in the timing of new production are inaccurate, new facilities may be constructed in advance of the actual need for capacity or may not be constructed in time to accommodate volume flows, which could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, the construction of additions to existing gathering and transportation assets may require new rights-of-way prior to construction. Those rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to existing. 26. gathering lines may be unavailable and Enable may not be able to capitalize on attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. Natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices are volatile, and changes in these prices could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be negatively affected by adverse changes in the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depending on factors that are beyond Enable's control. These factors include demand for these commodities, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including the impact of seasonality and weather, general economic conditions, the level of domestic and offshore natural gas production and consumption, the availability of imported natural gas, LNG, NGLs and crude oil, actions taken by foreign natural gas and oil producing nations, the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems, the availability and marketing of competitive fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts, technological advances affecting energy consumption and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation.. Enable's natural gas processing arrangements expose it to commodity price fluctuations. In 2017, 7%, 35% and 58% of Enable's processing plant inlet volumes consisted of keep-whole arrangements, percent-of-proceeds or percent-of-liquids and fee-based, respectively. If the price at which Enable sells natural gas or NGLs is less than the cost at which Enable purchases natural gas or NGLs under these arrangements, then Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. At any given time, Enable's overall portfolio of processing contracts may reflect a net short position in natural gas (meaning that Enable is a net buyer of natural gas) and a net long position in NGLs (meaning that Enable is a net seller of NGLs). As a result, Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected to the extent the price of NGLs decreases in relation to the price of natural gas.. Enable is exposed to credit risks of its customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by its customers could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Some of Enable's customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by its customers could limit Enable's ability to collect amounts owed to it, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of Enable's customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facility and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of its customers' liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to Enable. Furthermore, some of Enable's customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to Enable. Financial problems experienced by Enable's customers could result in the impairment of its assets, reduction of its operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of its products and services, which could reduce Enable's revenues.. Enable provides certain transportation and storage services under fixed-price \"negotiated rate\" contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if its cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, Enable's costs could exceed its revenues received under such contracts.. Enable has been authorized by the FERC to provide transportation and storage services at its facilities at negotiated rates. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 44% of Enable's aggregate contracted firm transportation capacity on EGT and MRT and 44% of its aggregate contracted firm storage capacity on EGT and MRT, was subscribed under such \"negotiated rate\" contracts.  These contracts generally do not include provisions allowing for adjustment for increased costs due to inflation, pipeline safety activities or other factors that are not tied to an applicable tracking mechanism authorized by the FERC. Successful recovery of any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between \"recourse rates\" (if higher) and negotiated rates, is not assured under current FERC policies. If Enable's costs increase and it is not able to recover any shortfall of revenue associated with its negotiated rate contracts, the cash flow realized by Enable's systems could decrease and, therefore, the cash Enable has available for distribution could also decrease.. 27. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Enable's gathering, processing or transportation facilities become partially or fully unavailable for any reason, Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. Enable depends upon third-party pipelines to deliver natural gas to, and take natural gas from, its natural gas transportation systems and upon third-party pipelines to take crude oil from its crude oil gathering systems. Enable also depends on third-party facilities to transport and fractionate NGLs that are delivered to the third party at the tailgates of Enable's processing plants. Fractionation is the separation of the heterogeneous mixture of extracted NGLs into individual components for end-use sale. For example, an outage or disruption on certain pipelines or fractionators operated by a third party could result in the shutdown of certain of Enable's processing plants and gathering systems, and a prolonged outage or disruption could ultimately result in a reduction in the volume of natural gas Enable gathers and NGLs it is able to produce. Additionally, Enable depends on third parties to provide electricity for compression at many of its facilities. Since Enable does not own or operate any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within its control. If any of these third-party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable for any reason, Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. Enable does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt its operations.. Enable does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and it is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Enable may obtain the rights to construct and operate its pipelines for a specific period of time on lands owned by governmental agencies, American Indian tribes, or other third parties, including on American Indian allotments, title to which is held in trust by the United States. A loss of these rights, through Enable's inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause it to cease operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to the construction and continuing operations elsewhere and adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable conducts a portion of its operations through joint ventures, which subject it to additional risks that could adversely affect the success of these operations and Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable conducts a portion of its operations through joint ventures with third parties, including Spectra Energy Partners, LP, DCP Midstream, LP, Trans Louisiana Gas Pipeline, Inc. and Pablo Gathering LLC. Enable may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third-party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside Enable's control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, Enable's business may be adversely affected.. Enable's joint venture arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when operating assets directly, including, for example:. • Enable's joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions;. • Enable's joint venture partners may not pay their share of the joint venture's obligations, leaving Enable liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities;. • Enable may be unable to control the amount of cash it will receive from the joint venture;. • Enable may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by its joint venture partners;. • Enable may be required to devote significant management time to the requirements of and matters relating to the joint ventures;. • Enable's insurance policies may not fully cover loss or damage incurred by both Enable and its joint venture partners in certain circumstances;. • Enable's joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to its instructions or requests or contrary to its policies or objectives; and. • disputes between Enable and its joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.. 28. The risks described above or the failure to continue Enable's joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with its joint venture partners could adversely affect its ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would in turn adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. The agreements under which Enable formed certain joint ventures may subject it to various risks, limit the actions it may take with respect to the assets subject to the joint venture and require Enable to grant rights to its joint venture partners that could limit its ability to benefit fully from future positive developments. Some joint ventures require Enable to make significant capital expenditures. If Enable does not timely meet its financial commitments or otherwise does not comply with its joint venture agreements, its rights to participate, exercise operator rights or otherwise influence or benefit from the joint venture may be adversely affected. Certain of Enable's joint venture partners may have substantially greater financial resources than Enable has and Enable may not be able to secure the funding necessary to participate in operations its joint venture partners propose, thereby reducing its ability to benefit from the joint venture.. Under certain circumstances, Spectra Energy Partners, LP could have the right to purchase Enable's ownership interest in SESH at fair market value.. Enable owns a 50% ownership interest in SESH. The remaining 50% ownership interest is held by Spectra Energy Partners, LP. We own 54.1% of Enable's common units, 100% of its Series A Preferred Units and a 40% economic interest in Enable's general partner. Pursuant to the terms of the limited liability company agreement of SESH, as amended, if, at any time, we  have a right to receive less than 50% of Enable's distributions through our interests in Enable and its general partner, or do not have the ability to exercise certain control rights, Spectra Energy Partners, LP could have the right to purchase Enable's interest in SESH at fair market value, subject to certain exceptions.. Enable's ability to grow is dependent on its ability to access external financing sources.. Enable expects that it will distribute all of its \"available cash\" to its unitholders.  As a result, Enable is expected to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent Enable is unable to finance growth externally, Enable's cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. In addition, because Enable is expected to distribute all of its available cash, its growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.. To the extent Enable issues additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that Enable will be unable to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that it has to distribute on each unit. There are no limitations in Enable's partnership agreement on its ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt by Enable to finance its growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may negatively impact the available cash that Enable has to distribute to its unitholders.. Enable depends on access to the capital markets to fund its expansion capital expenditures. Historically, unit prices of midstream master limited partnerships have experienced periods of volatility. In addition, because Enable's common units are yield-based securities, rising market interest rates could impact the relative attractiveness of its common units to investors. As a result of capital market volatility, Enable may be unable to issue equity or debt on satisfactory terms, or at all, which may limit its ability to expand its operations or make future acquisitions.. Enable's debt levels may limit its flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, Enable had approximately $2.6 billion of long-term debt outstanding, excluding the premiums on their senior notes, $405 million outstanding under its commercial paper program and $450 million outstanding under its unsecured term loan agreement dated July 31, 2015. Enable has a $1.75 billion revolving credit facility for working capital, capital expenditures and other partnership purposes, including acquisitions, of which $1.3 billion was available as of February 1, 2018. Enable has the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in its credit facilities. The levels of Enable's debt could have important consequences, including the following:. • the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or the financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all;. • a portion of cash flows will be required to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions;. 29. • Enable's debt level will make it more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in its business or the economy generally; and. • Enable's debt level may limit its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. Enable's ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions, commodity prices and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond Enable's control. If operating results are not sufficient to service current or future indebtedness, Enable may be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may not be effected on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Enable's credit facilities contain operating and financial restrictions, including covenants and restrictions that may be affected by events beyond Enable's control, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. Enable's credit facilities contain customary covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to:. • permit its subsidiaries to incur or guarantee additional debt;. • incur or permit to exist certain liens on assets;. • dispose of assets;. • merge or consolidate with another company or engage in a change of control;. • enter into transactions with affiliates on non-arm's length terms; and. • change the nature of its business.. Enable's credit facilities also require it to maintain certain financial ratios. Enable's ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond its control, and we cannot assure you that it will meet those ratios. In addition, Enable's credit facilities contain events of default customary for agreements of this nature.. Enable's ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in its credit facilities may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, Enable's ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If Enable violates any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in its credit facilities, a significant portion of its indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. In addition, Enable's lenders' commitments to make further loans to it under the revolving credit facility may be suspended or terminated. Enable might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.. Enable may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for its operations, which could inhibit its ability to do business.. Performance of Enable's operations requires that Enable obtain and maintain a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of Enable's compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay the issuance of a new or existing material permit or other approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or other approval, could adversely affect Enable's ability to initiate or continue operations at the affected location or facility and on its financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Additionally, in order to obtain permits and renewals of permits and other approvals in the future, Enable may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential adverse impact that any proposed pipeline or processing-related activities may have on the environment, individually or in the aggregate, including on public and Indian lands. Certain approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites or the expansion of existing sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive and significantly lengthens the time required to prepare applications and to receive authorizations.. 30. Costs of compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations are significant, and the cost of compliance with future environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Enable is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife conservation, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, delay or increase its costs of construction, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs. For instance, in May 2016, the EPA issued final New Source Performance Standards governing methane emissions imposing more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions at new and modified oil and natural gas production, processing, storage, and transmission facilities. These rules have required changes to Enable's operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. Additionally, several states are pursuing similar measures to regulate emissions of methane from new and existing sources. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations. Future federal and state regulations relating to Enable's gathering and processing, transmission, and storage operations remain a possibility and could result in increased compliance costs on its operations. Furthermore, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions are adopted in areas where its oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which could adversely affect demand for Enable's services to those customers.. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in Enable's operations due to its handling of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and produced water, as well as air emissions related to its operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. These matters are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of plants, wildlife, and natural and cultural resources. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact Enable's business activities in many ways, such as restricting the way it can handle or dispose of wastes or requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by its operations or that are attributable to former operators. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred, without regard to fault, under certain of these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of wastes on, under or from Enable's properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under its control. Private parties, including the owners of the properties through which Enable's gathering and transportation systems pass and facilities where its wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. For example, an accidental release from one of Enable's pipelines could subject it to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Enable may be unable to recover these costs from insurance. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Further, stricter requirements could negatively impact Enable's customers' production and operations, resulting in less demand for its services.. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and waste water injection wells could result in reductions or delays in natural gas production by Enable's customers, which could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. Hydraulic fracturing is common practice that is used by many of Enable's customers to stimulate production of natural gas and crude oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. In addition, certain federal agencies have proposed additional laws and regulations to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. In past sessions, Congress has considered, but not passed, legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The EPA has issued the Safe Water Drinking Act permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations involving the use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority.. Some states have adopted, and other states have considered adopting, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, in some cases banning hydraulic fracturing entirely. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where Enable's oil and natural gas exploration. 31. and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which activities could adversely affect demand for Enable's services to those customers.. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the operation of injection wells used for oil and gas waste disposal and seismic activity. Similar concerns have been raised that hydraulic fracturing may also contribute to seismic activity. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arkansas. In March 2017, the United States Geological Survey produced an updated seismic hazard survey that forecasted lower earthquake rates in regions of induced activity, but still showed significantly elevated hazards in the central and eastern United States. In light of these concerns, some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations or issued orders to address induced seismicity. For example, the OCC has implemented volume reduction plans, and at times required shut-ins, for disposal wells injecting wastewater from oil and gas operations into the Arbuckle formation. In December 2016, the OCC also released well completion seismicity guidelines for operators in the South Central Oklahoma Oil Province and the Sooner Trend Anadarko Basin Canadian and Kingfisher Counties that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. Certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. Enable cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and gas activities utilizing hydraulic fracturing or injection wells for waste disposal. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs for Enable's customers, which in turn could reduce the demand for Enable's services.. Other governmental agencies, including the DOE, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms.. Enable's operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Changes or additional regulatory measures adopted by such authorities could adversely affect Enable's financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions.. The rates charged by several of Enable's pipeline systems, including for interstate gas transportation service provided by its intrastate pipelines, are regulated by the FERC. Enable's pipeline operations that are not regulated by the FERC may be subject to state and local regulation applicable to intrastate natural gas transportation services and crude oil gathering services. The relevant states in which Enable operates include North Dakota, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Missouri, Kansas, Mississippi, Tennessee and Illinois.. The FERC and state regulatory agencies also regulate other terms and conditions of the services Enable may offer. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower its tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service Enable might propose or offer, the profitability of Enable's pipeline businesses could suffer. If Enable were permitted to raise its tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which could also limit its profitability. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent Enable from raising its tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit it to do so. The regulatory agencies that regulate Enable's systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for Enable's services or otherwise adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.  Further, should Enable fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, it could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of Enable's assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of its assets, which may cause its revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Enable's natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction of the FERC under the NGA, but FERC regulation may indirectly impact these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on interstate open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion may indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and. 32. natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue to pursue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas transportation business. Although the FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to all of Enable's facilities it considers to be gathering facilities, Enable believes that its natural gas gathering pipelines meet the traditional tests that the FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and are therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and the FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of Enable's gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If the FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by the FERC under the NGA or the NGPA. Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect Enable's financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, if any of Enable's facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or the NGPA, this could result in the imposition of substantial civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge revenues collected for such services in excess of the maximum rates established by the FERC.. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at the state level; therefore, Enable's natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they become subject to the application of state regulation of rates and services. Enable's gathering operations could also be subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, construction, testing, operation, replacement and maintenance of gathering facilities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on Enable's operations, but Enable could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes.. Other Risk Factors Affecting Our Businesses or Our Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP. We are subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities arising from environmental laws and regulations.. Our operations and the operations of Enable are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations pertaining to the environment. As an owner or operator of natural gas pipelines, distribution systems and storage, electric transmission and distribution systems, and the facilities that support these systems, we must comply with these laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such as:. • restricting the way we can handle or dispose of wastes;. • limiting or prohibiting construction activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands, coastal regions, or areas inhabited by endangered species;. • requiring remedial action to mitigate environmental conditions caused by our operations, or attributable to former operations;. • enjoining the operations of facilities with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations; and. • impacting the demand for our services by directly or indirectly affecting the use or price of natural gas.. To comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts and devote other resources from time to time to:. • construct or acquire new facilities and equipment;. • acquire permits for facility operations;. • modify or replace existing and proposed equipment; and. • clean or decommission waste management areas, fuel storage facilities and other locations.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial actions, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean and restore sites where hazardous substances have been stored, disposed or released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners. 33. and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment.. The recent trend in environmental regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment, and thus there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be greater than the amounts we currently anticipate.. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Insufficient insurance coverage and increased insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of our facilities in amounts that we consider appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of our facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In common with other companies in its line of business that serve coastal regions, Houston Electric does not have insurance covering its transmission and distribution system, other than substations, because Houston Electric believes it to be cost prohibitive and believes insurance capacity to be limited. In the future, Houston Electric may not be able to recover the costs incurred in restoring its transmission and distribution properties following hurricanes or other disasters through issuance of storm restoration bonds or a change in its regulated rates or otherwise, or any such recovery may not be timely granted. Therefore, Houston Electric may not be able to restore any loss of, or damage to, any of its transmission and distribution properties without negative impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operations and Enable's operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the gathering, processing, transportation and storage of natural gas and crude oil, including:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism and actions by third parties;. • inadvertent damage from construction, vehicles, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities;. • ruptures, fires and explosions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our or Enable's operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we or Enable operate could have a material adverse effect on our or Enable's operations.. Enable is not fully insured against all risks inherent in its business. Enable currently has general liability and property insurance in place to cover certain of its facilities in amounts that Enable considers appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles. Enable does not have business interruption insurance coverage for all of its operations. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of Enable's facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage without negative impact on its results of operations and its ability to make cash distributions.. We, Houston Electric and CERC could incur liabilities associated with businesses and assets that we have transferred to others.. Under some circumstances, we, Houston Electric and CERC could incur liabilities associated with assets and businesses we, Houston Electric and CERC no longer own. These assets and businesses were previously owned by Reliant Energy, a predecessor of Houston Electric, directly or through subsidiaries and include:. 34. • merchant energy, energy trading and REP businesses transferred to RRI or its subsidiaries in connection with the organization and capitalization of RRI prior to its initial public offering in 2001 and now owned by affiliates of NRG; and. • Texas electric generating facilities transferred to a subsidiary of Texas Genco in 2002, later sold to a third party and now owned by an affiliate of NRG.. In connection with the organization and capitalization of RRI (now GenOn) and Texas Genco (now an affiliate of NRG), those companies and/or their subsidiaries assumed liabilities associated with various assets and businesses transferred to them and agreed to certain indemnity agreements of CenterPoint Energy entities. Such indemnities have applied in cases such as the litigation arising out of sales of natural gas in California and other markets (the last remaining case involving us is now on appeal, following the district court's summary judgment in favor of CES, a subsidiary of CERC Corp.) and various asbestos and other environmental matters that arise from time to time. In June 2017, GenOn and various affiliates filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In December 2017, GenOn received court approval of a restructuring plan and is expected to emerge from Chapter 11 in mid-2018. We, CERC and CES submitted proofs of claim in the bankruptcy proceedings to protect our indemnity rights. If any of the indemnifying entities were unable to meet their indemnity obligations or satisfy a liability that has been assumed in the gas market manipulation litigation, we, Houston Electric or CERC could incur liability and be responsible for satisfying the liability.. In connection with our sale of Texas Genco, the separation agreement was amended to provide that Texas Genco would no longer be liable for, and we would assume and agree to indemnify Texas Genco against, liabilities that Texas Genco originally assumed in connection with its organization to the extent, and only to the extent, that such liabilities are covered by certain insurance policies held by us, and in certain of the asbestos lawsuits we have agreed to continue to defend such claims to the extent they are covered by insurance maintained by us, subject to reimbursement of the costs of such defense by an NRG affiliate.. Cyber-attacks, physical security breaches, acts of terrorism or other disruptions could adversely impact our or Enable's reputation, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. We and Enable are subject to cyber and physical security risks related to adversaries attacking information technology systems, network infrastructure, technology and facilities used to conduct almost all of our and Enable's business which includes (i) managing operations and other business processes and (ii) protecting sensitive information maintained in the normal course of business. For example, the operation of our electric transmission and distribution system is dependent on not only physical interconnection of our facilities but also on communications among the various components of our system. This reliance on information and communication between and among those components has increased since deployment of smart meters and the intelligent grid.  Similarly, our and Enable's business operations are interconnected with external networks and facilities. The distribution of natural gas to our customers requires communications with Enable's pipeline facilities and third-party systems. The gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas from Enable's gathering, processing and pipeline facilities and crude oil gathering pipeline systems also rely on communications among its facilities and with third-party systems that may be delivering natural gas or crude oil into or receiving natural gas or crude oil and other products from Enable's facilities. Disruption of those communications, whether caused by physical disruption such as storms or other natural disasters, by failure of equipment or technology or by manmade events, such as cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism, may disrupt our or Enable's ability to conduct operations and control assets.. Cyber-attacks and unauthorized access could also result in the loss, or unauthorized use, of confidential, proprietary or critical infrastructure data or security breaches of other information technology systems that could disrupt operations and critical business functions, adversely affect reputation, increase costs and subject us or Enable to possible legal claims and liability. Further, third parties, including vendors, suppliers and contractors, who perform certain services for us or administer and maintain our sensitive information, could also be targets of cyber-attacks and unauthorized access. Neither we nor Enable is fully insured against all cyber-security risks, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on either our or Enable's results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. In addition, our and Enable's critical energy infrastructure may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our respective business operations. In January 2017, the DOE's Quadrennial Energy Review reported that cyber threats to the electricity system are increasing in sophistication, magnitude and frequency. Any such disruptions could result in significant costs to repair damaged facilities and implement increased security measures, which could have a material adverse effect on either our or Enable's results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. 35. Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information could adversely affect us.. In connection with our business we collect and retain personally identifiable information (e.g., information of our customers, shareholders, suppliers and employees), and there is an expectation that we will adequately protect that information. The U.S. regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of the personally identifiable information we maintain, or of our data, by cyber-crime or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation.. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities or perform certain corporate functions.. Our performance depends on the successful operation of our facilities. Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:. • operator error or failure of equipment or processes, including failure to follow appropriate safety protocols;. • the handling of hazardous equipment or materials that could result in serious personal injury, loss of life and environmental and property damage;. • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;. • labor disputes;. • information technology or financial system failures, including those due to the implementation and integration of new technology, that impair our information technology infrastructure, reporting systems or disrupt normal business operations;. • information technology failure that affects our ability to access customer information or causes us to lose confidential or proprietary data that materially and adversely affects our reputation or exposes us to legal claims; and. • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, leaks, floods, droughts, hurricanes, terrorism, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences, which may require participation in mutual assistance efforts by us or other utilities to assist in power restoration efforts.. Such events may result in a decrease or elimination of revenue from our facilities, an increase in the cost of operating our facilities or delays in cash collections, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, effectively transition, motivate and retain key employees and identify and develop talent to succeed senior management.. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, effectively transition and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit and retain or effectively transition key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our business is dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate employees. Certain circumstances, such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, a mismatch of existing skillsets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as a lack of resources, loss of knowledge or a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Our costs, including costs to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be negatively affected.. 36. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our or Enable's services.. Regulatory agencies have from time to time considered adopting legislation, including modification of existing laws and regulations, to reduce GHGs, and there continues to be a wide-ranging policy and regulatory debate, both nationally and internationally, regarding the potential impact of GHGs and possible means for their regulation.  Efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues.. Following a finding by the EPA that certain GHGs represent an endangerment to human health, the EPA adopted two sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also expanded its existing GHG emissions reporting requirements. These permitting and reporting requirements could lead to further regulation of GHGs by the EPA. As a distributor and transporter of natural gas, or a consumer of natural gas in its pipeline and gathering businesses, CERC's or Enable's revenues, operating costs and capital requirements, as applicable, could be adversely affected as a result of any regulatory action that would require installation of new control technologies or a modification of its operations or would have the effect of reducing the consumption of natural gas.  Our electric transmission and distribution business, in contrast to some electric utilities, does not generate electricity and thus is not directly exposed to the risk of high capital costs and regulatory uncertainties that face electric utilities that burn fossil fuels to generate electricity.  Nevertheless, Houston Electric's revenues could be adversely affected to the extent any resulting regulatory action has the effect of reducing consumption of electricity by ultimate consumers within its service territory. Likewise, incentives to conserve energy or use energy sources other than natural gas could result in a decrease in demand for our services.. Climate changes could adversely impact financial results from our and Enable's businesses and result in more frequent and more severe weather events which could adversely affect the results of operations of our businesses.. If climate changes occur that result in warmer temperatures in our service territories, financial results from our and Enable's businesses could be adversely impacted. For example, CERC's NGD could be adversely affected through lower natural gas sales and Enable's natural gas gathering, processing and transportation and crude oil gathering businesses could experience lower revenues. Another possible result of climate change is more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes or tornadoes.  Since many of our facilities are located along or near the Gulf Coast, increased or more severe hurricanes or tornadoes could increase our costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to our customers.  When we cannot deliver electricity or natural gas to customers or our customers cannot receive our services, our financial results can be impacted by lost revenues, and we generally must seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs.  To the extent we are unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from our recovery of such costs result in reduced demand for our services, our future financial results may be adversely impacted.. We are uncertain how state commissions and local municipalities may require us to respond to the effects of the recent comprehensive tax reform legislation, and these regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law comprehensive tax reform legislation informally called the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, which resulted in significant changes to federal tax laws effective January 1, 2018, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate.. For Houston Electric and NGD, federal income tax expense is included in the rates approved by state commissions and local municipalities and charged by those utilities to consumers.  When Houston Electric and NGD have general rate cases and other periodic rate adjustments, we expect the lower corporate tax expense resulting from the TCJA (which includes determining the treatment of EDIT), along with other increases and decreases in our revenue requirements, to be incorporated into Houston Electric's and NGD's future rates.  Nevertheless, regulators may require us to respond to the TCJA in other ways, including through faster recoveries of reductions in federal income tax expense, accounting orders to reflect a liability to return to customers in future rate proceedings, accelerated returns to consumers of previously collected deferred federal income taxes, increased funding of infrastructure upgrades, or offsets of future rate increases.  The effect on us of any potential return of tax savings resulting from the TCJA to consumers may differ depending on how each regulatory body requires us to return such savings.. On January 25, 2018, the PUCT issued an accounting order in Project No. 47945 directing electric utilities, including Houston Electric, to record as a regulatory liability (1) the difference between revenues collected under existing rates and revenues that would have been collected had the existing rates been set using the recently approved federal income tax rates and (2) the balance of EDIT that now exists because of the reduction in federal income tax rates. On February 13, 2018, Houston Electric and other. 37. likely parties to a future rate case announced a settlement that requires Houston Electric to make (i) a TCOS filing by February 20, 2018 to reflect the change in the federal income tax rate for Houston Electric's transmission rate base through July 31, 2017 and account for certain EDIT (and such filing was timely submitted), (ii) a DCRF filing in April 2018 to reflect the change in the federal income tax rate for Houston Electric's distribution rate base through December 31, 2017 and (iii) a full rate case filing by April 30, 2019. The settlement was presented to the PUCT during its open meeting on February 15, 2018. In response to the settlement, the PUCT did not proceed with a prior proposal to require Houston Electric to file a rate case in the summer of 2018. The PUCT also amended its prior accounting order to remove the requirement that utilities include carrying costs in the new regulatory liability.. We can provide no assurances on how any regulatory body will ultimately require us to act.  As such, we are currently unable to determine the impact of these potential regulatory actions in response to the enactment of the TCJA, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, the TCJA also includes a variety of other changes, such as a limitation on the tax deductibility of interest expense and acceleration of business asset expensing, among others. Several provisions of the TCJA are not generally applicable to the public utility industry, including the limitation on the tax deductibility of interest expense and the acceleration of business asset expensing.  We continue to assess the impact that the TCJA may have on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, which impact may adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. CERC and Enable may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs.. Certain of CERC's and Enable's pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations. The DOT's PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections and other measures, for transportation pipelines located in \"high consequence areas,\" which are those areas where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require pipeline operators, including CERC and Enable, to, among other things:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • develop a baseline plan to prioritize the assessment of a covered pipeline segment;. • identify and characterize applicable threats that could impact a high consequence area;. • improve data collection, integration, and analysis;. • develop processes for performance management, record keeping, management of change and communication;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating action.. Failure to comply with PHMSA or comparable state pipeline safety regulations could result in a number of consequences that may have an adverse effect on CERC's and Enable's operations. Both CERC and Enable incur significant costs associated with their compliance with existing PHMSA and comparable state regulations, which may not be recoverable in rates.. Changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on CERC and Enable. For example, in January 2017, PHMSA announced the issuance of the Pipeline Safety: Safety of Hazardous Liquids Pipelines final rule.  The final rule extends regulatory reporting requirements to additional liquid gathering lines, requires additional event-driven and periodic inspections, requires use of leak detection systems on additional hazardous liquid pipelines, modifies repair criteria, and requires certain pipelines to eventually accommodate inline inspection tools.  It is unclear when or if this rule will go into effect as, on January 20, 2017, the Trump Administration requested that all regulations that had been sent to the Office of the Federal Register, but not yet published, be immediately withdrawn for further review, which is currently in progress. These proposals, if finalized, would impose additional costs on CERC and Enable.. In March 2016, PHMSA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking detailing proposed revisions to the safety standards applicable to natural gas transmission and gathering pipelines. The proposed rules include significant modifications which, if adopted, will result in significant operational and integrity management changes.  These include requiring reconfirmation of the Maximum Allowable Operating Pressures in pipelines without reliable records, creating new material verification procedures, adding a new. 38. moderate consequence area, and tightening repair criteria for pipelines in both high and moderate consequence areas. Other modifications include adding record-keeping and data collection obligations, and new requirements for monitoring gas quality and managing corrosion.  The proposed rules also would expand the scope of gas gathering lines subject to PHMSA regulation, including imposing minimum safety standards on certain larger, currently exempt, gathering lines, while subjecting all gathering-line operators to recordkeeping and annual reporting requirements from which they are currently exempt. Other proposed changes, such as the modification to the definition of a transmission line, some record-keeping requirements, and some material verification obligations also may impact distribution pipelines although PHMSA states that such far-reaching applicability is not its intent. This rule is also currently under evaluation, and PHMSA is expected to issue a final rule in the third quarter of 2018 at the earliest. Because the impact of these proposed rules remains uncertain, we are still monitoring and evaluating the effect of these proposed requirements on operations.. On December 14, 2016, PHMSA announced an interim final rule to impose industry-developed recommendations as enforceable safety standards for downhole (underground) equipment, including wells, wellbore tubing, and casing, at both interstate and intrastate underground natural gas storage facilities. States may also impose more stringent standards on intrastate storage facilities. Both CERC and Enable own and operate underground storage facilities that will be subject to this rule's provisions, which include procedures and practices for operations, maintenance, threat identification, monitoring, assessment, site security, emergency response and preparedness, training and recordkeeping. Although not yet finalized, the interim rule went into effect on January 18, 2017, with a compliance deadline of January 18, 2018. PHMSA determined, however, that it will not issue enforcement citations to any operators for violations of those provisions of the interim final rule that had previously been non-mandatory provisions of American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practices 1170 and 1171 until one year after PHMSA issues a final rule, which has not yet been issued. This matter remains ongoing and subject to future PHMSA determinations. CERC and Enable will continue to monitor developments and assess the potential impact of any modifications to this rule.. Proposed rulemakings such as those discussed above could expand the scope of natural gas and hazardous liquids integrity management programs and other pipeline safety regulations to include additional requirements or previously exempt pipelines. CERC and Enable have not estimated the cost of complying with any proposed changes to the regulations administered by PHMSA or state pipeline safety regulators.. Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact our financial results.. We have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets.  The age of certain of our assets may result in a need for replacement, or higher level of maintenance costs as a result of our risk based federal and state compliant integrity management programs.  Failure to achieve timely recovery of these expenses could adversely impact revenues and could result in increased capital expenditures or expenses.. The operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees.. Several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. There are seven separate bargaining units in CenterPoint Energy, each with a unique collective bargaining agreement. In 2017, CERC entered into renegotiated collective bargaining agreements with United Steelworkers Local 227 and United Steelworkers Local 13-1, which are scheduled to expire in June and July of 2022, respectively. The collective bargaining agreements with Gas Workers Union Local 340, IBEW Local 66 and Local 949 are each scheduled to expire in 2020, and the collective bargaining agreements with Professional Employees International Union Local 12 are scheduled to expire in 2021. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. These potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Our businesses will continue to have to adapt to technological change and may not be successful or may have to incur significant expenditures to adapt to technological change.. We operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. Some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and increasing in complexity. New technologies will emerge or grow that may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, and may require us to make significant expenditures so that we can continue to provide cost-effective and reliable methods of energy delivery. Among such technological advances are distributed generation resources (e.g., private solar), energy storage devices and more energy-efficient buildings and products designed to reduce consumption. As these technologies become a more cost-competitive option. 39. over time, whether through cost effectiveness or government incentives and subsidies, certain customers may choose to meet their own energy needs and subsequently decrease usage of our systems and services.. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these technological changes in a cost-effective manner and to offer, on a timely basis, reliable services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. If we fail to adapt successfully to any technological change or obsolescence, fail to obtain access to important technologies or incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological change, or if implemented technology does not operate as anticipated, our businesses, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our or Enable's potential business strategies and strategic initiatives, including merger and acquisition activities and the disposition of assets or businesses, may not be completed or perform as expected.. From time to time, we and Enable have made and may continue to make acquisitions or divestitures of businesses and assets, form joint ventures or undertake restructurings.  However, suitable acquisition candidates or potential buyers may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we or Enable, as the case may be, find acceptable, or the expected benefits of completed acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or may not be realized in the anticipated timeframe. If we or Enable are unable to make acquisitions or if those acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, our and Enable's future growth may be adversely affected.. Any completed or future acquisitions involve substantial risks, including the following:. • acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels;. • acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;. • we or Enable may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates, or for which our rights to indemnification from the seller are limited;. • we or Enable may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; and. • acquisitions, or the pursuit of acquisitions, could disrupt ongoing businesses, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain current business standards, controls and procedures.. In February 2016, we announced that we were evaluating strategic alternatives for our investment in Enable, including a sale or spin-off qualifying under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. We have determined that we will no longer pursue a spin option at this time. More recently, we announced that late-stage discussions with a third party regarding a transaction involving our investment in Enable had terminated because an agreement on mutually acceptable terms could not be reached. We may reduce our ownership in Enable over time through sales in the public equity markets, or otherwise, of the common units we hold, subject to market conditions. Although a transaction for all our interests in Enable is not viable at this time, we may pursue such a transaction if it is viable in the future. Our ability to execute any sale of common units is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the timing, pricing and terms of any such sale.  Any sales of our common units could have an adverse impact on the price of Enable common units or on any trading market for Enable common units. Further, our sales of Enable common units may have an adverse impact on Enable's ability to issue equity on satisfactory terms, or at all, which may limit its ability to expand operations or make future acquisitions. Any reduction in our interest in Enable would result in decreased distributions from Enable, which may reduce our operating income and adversely impact our ability to meet our payment obligations and pay dividends on our common stock. For a further discussion, please read \" -  Risk Factors Affecting Our Interests in Enable Midstream Partners, LP  -  Enable's ability to grow is dependent on its ability to access external financing sources.\". There can be no assurances that we will engage in any specific action or that any sale transaction or any sale of common units in the public equity markets or otherwise will be completed, and we do not intend to disclose further developments unless and until our board of directors approves a specific action or as otherwise required by applicable law or NYSE regulations. Any sale transaction or sale of common units in the public equity markets or otherwise may involve significant costs and expenses, including, in connection with any public offering, a significant underwriting discount.  We may not realize any or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from any completed sale or reduction in our investment in Enable.. 40. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolutions adverse to us could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to numerous legal proceedings, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements.  Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of all matters with assurance. Final resolution of these matters may require additional expenditures over an extended period of time that may be in excess of established insurance or reserves and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We are exposed to risks related to reduction in energy consumption due to factors including unfavorable economic conditions in our service territories, energy efficiency initiatives and use of alternative technologies.. Our businesses are affected by reduction in energy consumption due to factors including economic climate in our service territories, energy efficiency initiatives and use of alternative technologies, which could impact our ability to grow our customer base and our rate of growth. Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns in our regulated electric service territory will reduce overall sales and lessen cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity. Although Houston Electric is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity sold as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thereby diminishing results of operations. Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including goodwill, to their respective fair values.. For example, our electric business is largely concentrated in Houston, Texas, where a higher percentage of employment is tied to the energy sector relative to other regions of the country. During 2015 and 2016, the rate of growth in employment in Houston declined in connection with the significant decline in energy and commodity prices over that period. Relatively low commodity prices compared to pre-2015 levels continued in 2017, and we expect such relatively low prices to continue or slightly improve in 2018. In the event economic conditions further decline, the rate of growth in Houston and the other areas in which we operate may also deteriorate. Increases in customer defaults or delays in payment due to liquidity constraints could negatively impact our cash flows and financial condition.. Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence demand for electricity and the need for additional delivery facilities. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside our control, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand-side management goals, distributed generation resources and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity.. Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric devices or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption.. Some or all of these factors, could result in a lack of growth or decline in customer demand for electricity or number of customers, and may result in our failure to fully realize anticipated benefits from significant capital investments and expenditures which could have a material adverse effect on their financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Furthermore, we currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of energy efficiency programs. Should we be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or prevent fraud may be adversely affected. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could impact our businesses and the trading price of our securities.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If our efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls are not successful, we are unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting and processes in the future or we are unable to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. 41. Our businesses may be adversely affected by the intentional misconduct of our employees.. We are committed to living our core values of safety, integrity, accountability, initiative and respect and complying with all applicable laws and regulations. Despite that commitment and our efforts to prevent misconduct, it is possible for employees to engage in intentional misconduct, fail to uphold our core values, and violate laws and regulations for individual gain through contract or procurement fraud, misappropriation, bribery or corruption, fraudulent related-party transactions and serious breaches of our Ethics and Compliance Code and Standards of Conduct/Business Ethics policy, among other policies. If such intentional misconduct by employees should occur, it could result in substantial liability, higher costs, increased regulatory scrutiny and negative public perceptions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
