[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 14 Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business. The Equity in our ThermoGenesis Subsidiary is 20% Owned by a Third Party that Holds Certain Minority Investor Rights in that Subsidiary, and Those Rights Could Limit or Delay Our Ability to Take Certain Major Actions Relating to ThermoGenesis. Immediately prior to our acquisition of the assets and business of SynGen Inc. in July 2017, we contributed the assets and business of our blood and bone-marrow processing device business to our ThermoGenesis Corp. subsidiary. Substantially all of our historical revenues are attributable to our device business, and as a result of such contribution, the device business is now owned and operated by ThermoGenesis. In connection with the SynGen asset acquisition, we issued shares of ThermoGenesis common stock to SynGen resulting in SynGen owning 20% of the outstanding stock of ThermoGenesis on a post-transaction basis, and such common stock was thereafter transferred to Bay City Capital Fund V, L.P. and an affiliated fund (\"Bay City\"). Under the agreements relating to the SynGen asset acquisition, although we continue to own 80% of the outstanding capital stock of ThermoGenesis, Bay City was granted certain minority investor rights in ThermoGenesis. These rights include board representation rights, a right of first refusal over sales of ThermoGenesis stock by us, co-sale rights with respect to any sale of ThermoGenesis stock by us, and supermajority protective voting rights over certain major decisions, such as a sale of ThermoGenesis, raising capital in ThermoGenesis with preferred stock, transfers of ThermoGenesis assets, or redemptions of ThermoGenesis stock. In addition, the board of directors of ThermoGenesis is comprised of 5 persons, two of whom are designated by us, one of whom is designed by Bay City, one of whom is designated by us but must be independent, and one of whom is designated by Bay City but must be independent. The foregoing minority investor rights in ThermoGenesis could limit or delay our ability or flexibility to take certain major actions or make major decisions relating to ThermoGenesis that might be beneficial to our stockholders, unless such actions or decisions have the consent or support of Bay City. Accordingly, the minority investor rights in ThermoGenesis could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. We May Not be Able to Successfully Recognize the Anticipated Benefits from the SynGen Asset Acquisition or Retain Key Acquisition Employees. On July 7, 2017, our ThermoGenesis subsidiary acquired the business and substantially all of the assets of SynGen, a privately held Sacramento, California-based technology company that develops, markets, and sells advanced cell separation tools and accessories. The success of the SynGen asset acquisition depends on our ability to leverage the intellectual property, other assets, and acquired personnel of SynGen in order to increase our sales and profitability. In order to successfully achieve this, we will need to integrate the businesses and employees of SynGen and ThermoGenesis and motivate such employees. This will place significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems, our infrastructure, and our other resources. If we do not effectively manage this process, our ability to grow the consolidated business in the manner anticipated by the acquisition will suffer, and we may lose key employees that we acquired from SynGen.. Lack of Demonstrated Clinical Utility of Cord Blood Derived Stem Cells Beyond Hematopoietic Transplantation May Result in a Decline in Demand for Cord Blood Banking Services, Adversely Affecting Sales of Our Products. Transplants using stem cells derived from cord blood and cord tissue have become a standard procedure for treating blood cell lineage disorders including leukemia, lymphoma and anemia. However, clinical research demonstrating the utility of cord blood stem cells for use in treating other diseases or injuries has been minimal, leaving claims of broad clinical utility of cord blood stem cells by cord blood banks largely unsubstantiated. The low utilization rate of banked cord blood samples coupled with the lack of demonstrated clinical results for multiple treatment indications has led to consumer skepticism regarding the benefits of cord blood banking and in turn, a significant reduction in collection rates in a number of geographies in Europe and the U.S. A continued lack of investment in the research and development of supporting clinical data for additional applications may lead to greater skepticism globally, further adversely affecting demand for cord blood banking services and our revenues.. We have Limited Operating History In the Emerging Regenerative Medicine Industry. We are in the business of research, development and commercialization of autologous cell-based therapeutics for use in the emerging regenerative medicine industry, and therefore, we have a limited operating history in such industry on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects.  We will be subject to the risks inherent in the operation of a company in an emerging industry such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, and governmental regulation.. 15 Table of Contents. Our Controlling Stockholder Has Significant Influence Over Us Which Could Limit Your Ability to Influence the Outcome of Key Transactions, Including a Change of Control, and Could Negatively Impact the Market Price of Our Common Stock By Discouraging Third Party Investors. As of June 30, 2017, approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock is owned by Boyalife (Hong Kong) Limited. In addition, pursuant to the terms of a Nomination and Voting Agreement we entered into with Boyalife (Hong Kong) Limited and Boyalife Investment Inc. in February 2016, Boyalife (Hong Kong) Limited and Boyalife Investment Inc. have the right to designate up to three of the seven members to our board of directors until such time as they collectively no longer hold at least 50% of our common stock.. Boyalife (Hong Kong) Limited is 100% owned by Yishu Li, the spouse of Dr. Xiachun Xu, our CEO and chairman of our board of directors. Boyalife Investment, Inc. is also controlled by Dr. Xu. As a result of their ownership and ability to designate up to three members of our board of directors, Boyalife (Hong Kong) Limited and Boyalife Investment Inc. (including Dr. Xu and his spouse Ms. Li) are able to exercise significant influence over all matters affecting us, including the election of directors, formation and execution of business strategy and approval of mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price and ability to execute our strategic initiatives. They may have conflicts of interest and interests that are not aligned with those of other investors in all respects. As a result of the concentrated ownership of our common stock, Dr. Xu and Ms. Li, acting together, are able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and approval of a sale of our company, and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock by discouraging third party investors from investing or making tender offers for our shares.. Our Potential Cell Therapy Products and Technologies Are In Early Stages Of Development. The development of new cell therapy products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we may undertake will be successful. Our potential products in vascular, orthopedic, hematological/oncological and wound care indications will require extensive additional research and development and regulatory approval before any commercial introduction.  There can be no assurance that any future research, development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards.. We Intend To Rely On Third Parties For Certain Functions In Conducting Clinical Trials Of Our Product Candidates. We intend to rely on third parties for certain clinical trial activities of our products.  In this regard, we have an agreement with Fortis Healthcare Limited, a hospital chain networked throughout India and Asia, for contract clinical trial services programs among other services. The agreement expired in August 2017 and we are currently in discussions to renew the agreement. Termination, or non-renewal, of this agreement could jeopardize or delay development of our products.. We May Be Unable to Obtain Marketing Approval from the FDA For Our Point-of-Care System for Critical Limb Ischemia (CLI) Indication. At the end of 2016, the Company received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the Company's amended pivotal study protocol for treatment of CLI. The amended CLI clinical trial is designed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the Company's point-of-care system for the treatment of CLI patients with limited or no treatment options. The changes approved by the FDA are intended to increase patient enrollment by expanding the patient pool from Rutherford Category 5 patients only, to also include Rutherford Category 4 patients, or patients with a less severe form of the disease. The study population has been expanded to include patients who are poor candidates for either surgery or endovascular therapies. The sample size of the CLI trial was increased from 224 to 362 patients. With the FDA approval of our amended phase III clinical trial protocol of CLI, the company is actively looking for an external strategic partner to move forward with the CLI clinical trial program. The marketing approval of point-of-care device for the treatment of CLI indication is subject to a successful strategic partnership, successful completion of our phase III study with statistical significant results and acceptance of the results by the FDA for the disease indication. Our inability to successfully complete any of the above mentioned steps can affect our ability to obtain marketing approval in the United States.. 16 Table of Contents. Delays In The Commencement Or Completion Of Clinical Testing Of Our Products Could Result In Increased Costs To Us And Delay Our Ability To Generate Revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs.  We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all.  The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in:. <U+25CF>  Obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial;    <U+25CF>  Having the necessary funding in place to conduct the clinical trial;    <U+25CF>  Reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites for Phase II and III trials;    <U+25CF>  Obtaining proper devices for any or all of the product candidates;    <U+25CF>  Obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and    <U+25CF>  Recruiting participants for a clinical trial.. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF>  Failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements;    <U+25CF>  Inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;   <U+25CF>  Failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards;   <U+25CF>  Reports of serious adverse events including but not limited to death of trial subjects; or   <U+25CF>  Lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. Our clinical therapy candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs that we expect to pursue.. We May Seek To Enter Into Collaborative Arrangements To Develop and Commercialize Products Which May Not Be Successful. We may seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products both in North America and international markets.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful.. A Significant Portion of Revenue is Derived from Customers Outside the United States. We may Lose Revenues, Market Share, and Profits due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations and Political and Economic Changes Related to its Foreign Business. In the year ended June 30, 2017, sales to customers outside the U.S. comprised approximately 54% of revenues. This compares to 57% in fiscal 2016. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that foreign customers are willing to pay, and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial position and results.. 17 Table of Contents. The Loss of a Significant Distributor or End User Customer may Adversely Affect Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Revenues from a significant distributor and a significant customer comprised 42% of revenues for the year ended June 30, 2017. In August 2017, we did not renew the contract with this significant distributor and signed a contract with a new distributor which is an affiliate of the Company. The loss of a large end user customer or distributor may decrease revenues.. We may be Exposed to Liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any Determination that we Violated these Laws could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Adverse Results of Legal Proceedings could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of their merits, legal proceedings may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on a portion of our business operations or a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Operations. Our Ability to Conduct a CLIRST III Clinical Trial Is Substantially Dependent on Our Ability to Enter into a Strategic Partnership and There Are No Assurances That Such Funding Source will Materialize. We will need additional funding to commence the CLIRST III clinical trial and we are actively looking for a strategic partner to co-sponsor the trial with us. We cannot assure that such funding will be available on a timely basis, in needed quantities, or on terms favorable to us, if at all.. We Do Not Have Commercial-Scale Manufacturing Capability And Lack Commercial Manufacturing Experience. We operate GMP manufacturing facilities for both devices and cellular production; however, they are not of sufficient size for medium to large commercial production of product candidates.  We will not have large scale experience in cell-drug formulation or manufacturing, and will lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale.  Accordingly, we expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future.  Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our current or future products, depriving us of potential product revenues and resulting in additional losses.. We Have Limited Sales, Marketing and Distribution Experience in Pharmaceutical Products. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such effort will be successful.  If we decide to market any of our new products directly, we must either partner, acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities.  The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts.. 18 Table of Contents. Our Inability to Protect our Patents, Trademarks, Trade Secrets and other Proprietary Rights could Adversely Impact our Competitive Position. We believe that our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we commit substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary rights. We use various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, and customers, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how for our products. We currently hold patents for products, and have patents pending in certain countries for additional products that we market or intend to market. However, our actions to establish and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. If our products are challenged as infringing upon patents of other parties, we may be required to modify the design of the product, obtain a license, or litigate the issues, all of which may have an adverse business effect on us.. We may be Subject to Claims that our Products or Processes Infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of Others, which may Cause us to Pay Unexpected Litigation Costs or Damages, Modify our Products or Processes or Prevent us from Selling our Products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property and other rights. Our strategies of capitalizing on growing international demand as well as developing new innovative products across multiple business lines present similar infringement claim risks both internationally and in the U.S. as we expand the scope of our product offerings and markets. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increase the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert management's attention from operating our business. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully.. We Commercially, in Co-Branding with Fortis Healthcare, Bank and Store Private Cord Blood Stem Cells in our TotipotentRX GMP Facility. We could be Subject to Unexpected Litigation Costs or Damages for Loss of One or More Family Owned Units of Cord Blood or if one of the Cord Blood Units We Store Causes Bodily Injury. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, or cannot be used for some reason within our control and are found to result in injury or death. While we believe that our current liability insurance coverage is adequate for our present clinical and commercial activities we may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain insurance or any claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted.. If our Cord Blood Processing and Storage Facility in Gurgaon, India is Damaged or Destroyed, our Business, Programs and Prospects could be Negatively Affected. We process and store our customers' umbilical cord blood at our facility within Fortis Memorial Research Institute (a hospital) in Gurgaon, India. If this facility or the equipment in the facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored cord blood units. Depending on the extent of loss, such an event could reduce our ability to provide cord blood stem cells when requested, could expose us to significant liability from our cord blood banking customers and could affect our ability to continue to provide umbilical cord blood preservation services.. 19 Table of Contents. We may not be able to Protect our Intellectual Property in Countries Outside the United States. Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revisions. The laws of some countries do not protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. This is particularly relevant to us as a significant amount of our current and projected future sales are outside of the United States. Third parties may attempt to oppose the issuance of patents to us in foreign countries by initiating opposition proceedings. Opposition proceedings against any of our patent filings in a foreign country could have an adverse effect on our corresponding patents that are issued or pending in the United States. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our patents or our competitors' patents that have been issued in countries other than the U.S. This could result in substantial costs, divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Any Failure to Achieve and Maintain the High Design and Manufacturing Standards that our Products Require may Seriously Harm our Business. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel as well as our vendors. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Additionally, the large amount of AXP disposable inventory certain distributors and end-users maintain may delay the identification of a manufacturing error and expand the financial impact. A manufacturing error or defect, or previously undetected design defect, or uncorrected impurity or variation in a raw material component, either unknown or undetected, could affect the product. Despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. If we or our vendors are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected.. Our Revenues and Operating Results may be Adversely Affected as a Result of our Required Compliance with the Adopted EU Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, as well as other Standards Around the World. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. For example, the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (\"RoHS\") Directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. Other countries, such as China, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to RoHS. Eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offerings meet these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Therefore, we have focused our compliance efforts on those products and geographical areas in which we have the highest revenue potential. Our failure to comply with past, present and future similar laws could result in reduced sales of our products, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputation damage, penalties and other sanctions, any of which could harm our business and operating results.. Compliance with Government Regulations Regarding the Use of \"Conflict Minerals\" may Result in Additional Expense and Affect our Operations. The SEC has adopted a final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These minerals include tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. We may incur significant costs associated with complying with the new disclosure requirements, including but not limited to costs related to determining which of our products may be subject to the rules and identifying the source of any \"conflict minerals\" used in those products. Additionally, implementing the new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products. We may also face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify through our compliance procedures the origins for all metals used in our products.. 20 Table of Contents. Our Products may be Subject to Product Recalls which may Harm our Reputation and Divert our Managerial and Financial Resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order the mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. The FDA may also seize product or prevent further distribution. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects (including labeling defects). In the past we have initiated voluntary recalls of some of our products and we could do so in the future. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers, divert managerial and financial resources and negatively impact our profitability.. We are Dependent on our Suppliers and Manufacturers to Meet Existing Regulations. Certain of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to heavy government regulations, including FDA QSR compliance, in the operation of their facilities, products and manufacturing processes. Any adverse action by the FDA against our suppliers or manufacturers could delay supply or manufacture of component products required to be integrated or sold with our products. Although we attempt to mitigate this risk through inventory held directly or through distributors, and audit our suppliers, there are no assurances we will be successful in identifying issues early enough to allow for corrective action or transition to an alternative supplier, or in locating an alternative supplier or manufacturer to meet product shipment or launch deadlines. As a result, our sales, contractual commitments and financial forecasts may be significantly affected by any such delays.. Dependence on Suppliers for Disposable Products and Custom Components May Impact the Production Schedule. We obtain certain disposable products and custom components from a limited number of suppliers. If the supplier raises the price or discontinues production, we may have to find another qualified supplier to provide the item or re-engineer the item. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to qualify the quality assurance systems and product quality of that alternative supplier. Any operational issues with re-engineering or the alternative qualified supplier may impact the production schedule, therefore delaying revenues, and this may cause the cost of disposables or key components to increase.. Failure to Meet the Financial Covenant in our Technology License and Escrow Agreement could Decrease our AXP Revenues. Under our license and escrow agreement with Cbr Systems, Inc. if we fail to meet the financial covenant of cash balance and short-term investments net of debt or borrowed funds that are payable within one year of not less than $2,000,000, they may take possession of the escrowed intellectual property and initiate manufacturing of the applicable device and disposables. If this were to occur, our revenues would be negatively impacted. In order to remain compliant we may have to complete additional financings or provide consideration to the counter party to modify the obligations.. Failure to Retain or Hire Key Personnel may Adversely Affect our Ability to Sustain or Grow our Business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Our future success partially depends upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and future financial condition.. 21 Table of Contents. Most of Our Operations Are Conducted At A Single Location. Any Disruption At Our Facilities Could Delay Revenues Or Increase Our Expenses. Our U.S. device operations are conducted at a single location although we contract the manufacturing of certain devices, disposables and components. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, through insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case.. Failure to Maintain and/or Upgrade Our Information Technology Systems May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations, and we evaluate these systems against our current and expected requirements. We are currently evaluating alternatives to our legacy ERP system. Until a new system is purchased and implemented, any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations.. If we Fail to Maintain Proper and Effective Internal Controls, our Ability to Produce Accurate and Timely Financial Statements Could be Impaired, which Could Harm our Operating Results, our Ability to Operate our Business and Investors' Views of Us. We are required to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, which are processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are also required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which (among other things) requires public companies to conduct an annual review and evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. However, as a \"smaller reporting company,\" we are not required to obtain an auditor attestation regarding our internal control over financial reporting. If, in the future, we require an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm and that firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investor confidence and, in turn, our stock price could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Industry. Our Business is Heavily Regulated, Resulting in Increased Costs of Operations and Delays in Product Sales. Many of our products require FDA approval or clearance to sell in the U.S. and will require approvals from comparable agencies to sell in foreign countries. These authorizations may limit the U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold. Further, our products must be manufactured under requirements of our quality system for continued CE-Marking so they can continue to be marketed and sold in Europe. These requirements are similar to the QSR of both the FDA and California Department of Public Health. Failure to comply with or incorrectly interpret these quality system requirements and regulations may subject us to delays in production while we correct deficiencies found by the FDA, the State of California, or our notifying body as a result of any audit of our quality system. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could receive a Warning Letter or an untitled letter from the FDA or even be temporarily shut down in manufacturing and product sales while the non-conformances are rectified. Also, we may have to recall products and temporarily cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. The FDA may also invalidate our PMA or 510(k) if appropriate regulations relative to the PMA or 510(k) product are not met. The notified bodies may elect to not renew CE-Mark certification. Any of these events would negatively impact our revenues and costs of operations.. 22 Table of Contents. Changes in Governmental Regulations may Reduce Demand for our Products or Increase our Expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. For example, many of our instruments are marketed to the industry for enabling new regenerative therapies. Changes in the FDA's regulation of the devices and products directed at regenerative medicine, and development process for new therapeutic applications could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products.. To Sell in International Markets, We will be Subject to Regulation in Foreign Countries. In cooperation with our distribution partners, we intend to market our current and future products both domestically and in many foreign markets. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. In order for us to market our products in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. International sales also may be limited or disrupted by political instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold.. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in all of the countries where we intend to market our products, or that we will not incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances, or that we will be able to successfully commercialize current or future products in various foreign markets. Delays in receipt of approvals or clearances to market our products in foreign countries, failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the future loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. To Operate In Foreign Jurisdictions, We Are Subject to Regulation by Non-U.S. Authorities. We have operations in India, and as such are subject to Indian regulatory agencies. A number of risks are inherent in conducting business and clinical operations overseas. In order for us to operate as a majority owned foreign corporation in India, we are subject to financial regulations imposed by the Reserve Bank of India. This includes the rules specific to the capital funding, pledging of assets, repatriation of funds and payment of dividends from and to the foreign subsidiaries and from and to us in the U.S.. In order for us to manufacture and/or market our services and products in India, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, and/or export may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. Additionally, in order for us to complete clinical trials, clinical trial services and cell banking in India, and other foreign jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain approvals and licenses which comply with extensive regulations of the appropriate regulatory body.. International operations also may be limited or disrupted by political, economic or social instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs as ordered by various governmental agencies. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the cost of production for our products by increasing the price of materials and other inputs for our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold.. 23 Table of Contents. If Our Competitors Develop and Market Products That Are More Effective Than Our Product Candidates Or Obtain Regulatory and Market Approval For Similar Products Before We Do, Our Commercial Opportunity May Be Reduced Or Eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products which target cardiovascular, orthopedic, chronic dermal wounds and other conditions addressed by our current and future products is competitive, and we will face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. As a result, there is a risk that one of the competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which we are developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before we can. With regards to the BioArchive and AXP Systems, numerous larger and better-financed medical device manufacturers may choose to enter this market.. Influence by the Government and Insurance Companies may Adversely Impact Sales of our Products. Our business may be materially affected by continuing efforts by government, third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to reduce the costs of healthcare. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing and profit margins of certain healthcare products are subject to government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to place pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. As a result, continuing efforts to contain healthcare costs may result in reduced sales or price reductions for our products. To date, we are not aware of any direct impact on our pricing or product sales due to such efforts by governments to contain healthcare costs, and we do not anticipate any impact in the near future.. Product Liability and Uninsured Risks May Adversely Affect the Continuing Operations. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness, or death. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. We also may be required to recall certain of our products should they become damaged or if they are defective. We are not aware of any material product liability claims against us. However, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. We maintain a product liability policy and a general liability policy that includes product liability coverage. However, a product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or future financial condition.. We Commercially Process Stem Cells under a Physician's Order for use in Clinical Applications in India. Our GMP laboratory within Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurgaon, India, processes stem cells for certain uses under a physician's order, and we charge for these services. This service is primarily focused on our growing initiative in bone marrow transplant. We could face product or service liability claim(s) for a bodily injury asserted by a claimant as a result from our GMP services. We mitigate our risks by adhering to international standards, maintain international certification by BSI to GMP, are U.S FDA registered for such activities and are inspected by the Drugs Controller General of India. We believe our global liability insurance is sufficient to cover claims, but in the event it is not it could materially impact our financial health.. Risks Related to Operating Results and Financial Markets. We Have Incurred Net Losses and We Anticipate that our Losses will Continue. We have not been profitable for a significant period. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, we had a net loss of $29,095,000 and $18,588,000 respectively and an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2017, of $185,357,000. We will continue to incur significant costs as we develop and market our current products and related applications. Although we are executing our business plan to develop, market and launch new products, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our objectives for new product sales or threaten our ability to continue as a going concern in future years.. 24 Table of Contents. We Will Need to Raise Additional Capital to Fund our Operations and in Furtherance of Our Business Plan. We will need to raise additional capital in the near future to fund our future operations and in furtherance of our business plan, including progression of the clinical trials and development of other new products. The proposed financing may include shares of common stock, shares of preferred stock, warrants to purchase shares of common stock or preferred stock, debt securities, units consisting of the forgoing securities, equity investments from strategic development partners or some combination of each. Any additional equity financings may be financially dilutive to, and will be dilutive from an ownership perspective to our stockholders, and such dilution may be significant based upon the size of such financing. Additionally, we cannot assure that such funding will be available on a timely basis, in needed quantities, or on terms favorable to us, if at all.. Our Future Financial Results Could be Adversely Impacted by Asset Impairment Charges. We are required to test both goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduces our fair value below book value. These events or circumstances could include results of our on-going clinical trials, activities and results of our competitor's clinical trials, a significant change in the regulatory climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, or other factors. If the fair market value is less than the book value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of the business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows.. As of June 30, 2017 we have a goodwill balance of $13,195,000 and a net intangible assets balance of $20,165,000, out of total assets of $46,932,000. As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. We may Incur Significant Non-operating, Non-cash Charges Resulting from Changes in the Fair Value of Warrants. Our Series A warrants are a derivative instrument; as such they have been recorded at their respective relative fair values at the issuance date and will be recorded at their respective fair values at each subsequent balance sheet date. Any change in value between reporting periods will be recorded as a non-operating, non-cash charge at each reporting date. The impact of these non-operating, non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results. The fair value of the warrants is tied in large part to our stock price. If the stock price increases between reporting periods, the warrants become more valuable. As such, there is no way to forecast what the non-operating, non-cash charges will be in the future or what the future impact will be on our financial statements.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. If the Price of our Common Stock does not Meet the Requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market (\"NASDAQ\"), Our Shares may be Delisted. Our Ability to Publicly or Privately Sell Equity Securities and the Liquidity of Our Common Stock Could be Adversely Affected if We Are Delisted. The listing standards of NASDAQ provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. 25 Table of Contents. Liquidity of our Common Stock. Although there is a public market for our common stock, trading volume has been historically low, which could impact the stock price and the ability to sell shares of our common stock. We can give no assurance that an active and liquid public market for the shares of the common stock will continue in the future. In addition, future sales of large amounts of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. The price of our common stock could also drop as a result of the exercise of options for common stock or the perception that such sales or exercise of options could occur. These factors could also have a negative impact on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise funds through future stock offerings.. We do not Pay Cash Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to apply earnings, if any, to the expansion and development of our business. Thus, the liquidity of your investment is dependent upon your ability to sell stock at an acceptable price. The price can go down as well as up and may limit your ability to realize any value from your investment, including the initial purchase price."
