[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in our forward-looking statements. We may encounter risks in addition to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also impair or adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation.. We emerged from bankruptcy in March 2017, which could adversely affect our business and relationships.. It is possible that our having filed for bankruptcy and our emergence from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in March 2017 could adversely affect our business and relationships with customers, vendors, royalty or working interest owners, contractors, employees or suppliers. Due to uncertainties, many risks exist, including the following:. •  key suppliers could terminate their relationship or require financial assurances or enhanced performance;. •  the ability to renew existing contracts and compete for new business may be adversely affected;. •  the ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees may be adversely affected;. •  employees may be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other employment opportunities;. •  landowners may not be willing to lease acreage to us; and. •  competitors may take business away from us, and our ability to attract and retain customers may be negatively impacted.. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and reputation. We cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations in the future.. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial information as a result of the implementation of the Reorganization Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby and our adoption of fresh start accounting.. In connection with the disclosure statement we filed with the Bankruptcy Court, and the hearing to consider confirmation of the Reorganization Plan, we prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Reorganization Plan and our ability to continue operations upon our emergence from bankruptcy. Those projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the bankruptcy proceedings and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. Although the financial projections disclosed in our disclosure statement filed with the Bankruptcy Court represented our view based on then current known facts and assumptions about the future operations of the Company there is no guarantee that the financial projections will be realized. We may not be able to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows assumed in projecting future business prospects. To the extent we do not meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows, we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned and may be unable to service our debt obligations as they come due or may not be able to meet our operational needs. Any one of these failures may preclude us from, among other things: (a) taking advantage of future opportunities; (b) growing our businesses; or (c) responding to future changes in the oil and gas industry. Further, our failure to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which constraints may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital when it is required.. In addition, upon our emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh start accounting, as a consequence of which our assets and liabilities were adjusted to fair values and the opening balance of our accumulated deficit upon emergence from bankruptcy was restated to zero. Accordingly, our future financial conditions and results of operations may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in the Company's historical financial statements.. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, the composition of our Board of Directors changed significantly.. Pursuant to the Reorganization Plan, the composition of the Board changed significantly. The new directors have different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives from those individuals who served on the Board prior to bankruptcy and, thus, may have different views on the issues that will determine the future of the Company. There is no guarantee that the new Board will pursue, or will pursue in the same manner, our current strategic plans. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those prior to bankruptcy.. The ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to the success of our business and may be affected by our emergence from bankruptcy.. The success of our business depends on key personnel. The ability to attract and retain these key personnel may be difficult in light of our emergence from bankruptcy, the uncertainties currently facing the business and changes we may make to the. 29. organizational structure to adjust to changing circumstances. We may need to enter into retention or other arrangements that could be costly to maintain. If executives, managers or other key personnel resign, retire or are terminated, or their service is otherwise interrupted, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner and we could experience significant declines in productivity.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") may be limited as a result of our emergence from bankruptcy and new limitations under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\").. In general, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\") of 1986, as amended, provides an annual limitation with respect to the ability of a corporation to utilize its tax attributes, as well as certain built-in-losses, against future taxable income in the event of a change in ownership. Emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings resulted in a change in ownership for purposes of the IRC Section 382. The Company analyzed alternatives available within the IRC to taxpayers in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in order to minimize the impact of the ownership change and cancellation of indebtedness income on its tax attributes. Upon filing its 2017 U.S. Federal income tax return, the Company plans to elect an available alternative which would likely result in the Company experiencing a limitation that subjects existing tax attributes at emergence to an IRC Section 382 limitation that could result in some or all of the remaining net operating loss carryforwards expiring unused. However, the Company will continue to evaluate the remaining available alternative which would not subject existing tax attributes to an IRC Section 382 limitation.. In addition to the above, there are new limitations that apply to NOLs that arise in a taxable year ending after December 31, 2017.  Unlike the law in effect prior to the 2017 Tax Act, the amendments to Section 172 disallow the carryback of NOLs but allow for the indefinite carryforward of those NOLs.  In addition to the carryover and carryback changes, the 2017 Tax Act also introduces a limitation on the amount of post-2017 NOLs that a corporation may deduct in a single tax year under section 172(a) equal to the lesser of the available NOL carryover or 80 percent of a taxpayer's pre-NOL deduction taxable income.. Limitations imposed on our ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions and divestitures.. In the future we may make acquisitions of businesses that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. As a result, our acquisition activities may not be successful, which may hinder our replacement of reserves and adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, we may sell non-core assets in order to increase capital resources available for other core assets and to create organizational and operational efficiencies. We may also occasionally sell interests in core assets for the purpose of accelerating the development and increasing efficiencies in such core assets. Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of such assets, including the approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the assets with terms we deem acceptable.. Our producing properties are located in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. Within these areas, our development opportunities, comprised of our inventory of drilling locations, are geographically concentrated in the STACK play in Oklahoma. We are therefore vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. At December 31, 2017, 65% of our proved reserves and 56% of our total equivalent production were attributable our properties located in the STACK, and we expect that concentration to increase as we have allocated substantially all of our oil and natural gas capital budget to this area in 2018. The remainder of our proved reserves and production are from properties in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, state and local political forces and governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, severe weather events, water shortages or other conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs in the region.. The market price of our common stock is volatile.. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell common stock in the future are subject to fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. •  consequences of our reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, from which we emerged on March 21, 2017;. •  limited trading volume in our common stock;. •  the concentration of holdings of our common stock. 30. •  variations in operating results;. •  our involvement in litigation;. •  general U.S. or worldwide financial market conditions;. •  conditions impacting the prices of oil and gas;. •  announcements by us and our competitors;. •  our liquidity and access to capital;. •  our ability to raise additional funds;. •  events impacting the energy industry;. •  lack of trading market;. •  changes in government regulations; and. •  other events.. Trading of our common stock in the public market has been limited. Therefore, the holders of our common stock may be unable to liquidate their investment in our common stock.. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, our old common stock was cancelled and we issued new common stock. Our common stock is not currently listed on any U.S. national securities exchange registered with the SEC. Our Class A common stock is quoted on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets Group Inc. under the symbol \"CHPE\". Although our Class A common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, trading has been limited and with low volumes and therefore the market price of our Class A common stock may be difficult to ascertain. The common stock may be traded only infrequently in transactions arranged through brokers or otherwise, and reliable market quotations may not be available. To address these concerns and in an effort to develop an active trading market for shares of our Class A common stock, on March 6, 2018, at a special meeting of Stockholders, the Stockholders of the Company approved an amendment to the Stockholders Agreement which will allow the Company to list the Class A common stock on a national securities exchange without obtaining the approval of Stockholders. However, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in listing our Class A common stock on a U.S. national securities exchange. Further, even if the Class A common stock is listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, no assurance can be given that an active market will develop for our Class A common stock or as to the liquidity of the trading market for the common stock.. Our Class B common stock is not listed or quoted on the OTCQB or any other stock exchange or quotation system, and we have not applied for such listing. Further, in the event we were to seek such listing, there is no guarantee that any established securities exchange or quotation system would accept any of our Class B common stock for listing.. Holders of our common stock may experience difficulty in reselling, or an inability to sell, their shares. In addition, if an active trading market does not develop or is not maintained, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, investors in our securities may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by them or may not be able to resell them at all.. We may not be able to achieve our projected financial results or service our debt.. Although the financial projections disclosed in our Disclosure Statement filed with the Bankruptcy Court represented our view based on then current known facts and assumptions about the future operations of the Company there is no guarantee that the financial projections will be realized. We may not be able to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows assumed in projecting future business prospects. To the extent we do not meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows, we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned after emergence from bankruptcy and may be unable to service our debt obligations as they come due or may not be able to meet our operational needs. Any one of these failures may preclude us from, among other things: (a) taking advantage of future opportunities; (b) growing our businesses; or (c) responding to future changes in the oil and gas industry. Further, our failure to meet the projected financial results or achieve projected revenues and cash flows could lead to cash flow and working capital constraints, which constraints may require us to seek additional working capital. We may not be able to obtain such working capital when it is required.. Any inability to maintain our current derivative positions in the future specifically could result in financial losses or could reduce our income and cash flows.. Our results of operations, financial condition and capital resources are highly dependent upon the prevailing market prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas. These commodity prices are subject to wide fluctuations and market uncertainties. To mitigate a portion of this exposure, we enter into commodity price swaps, collars, put options, enhanced swaps and basis protection swaps. While. 31. the use of derivative contracts may limit or reduce the downside risk of adverse price movements, their use also may limit future benefits from favorable price movements and expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances. Those circumstances include instances where our production is less than the volume subject to derivative contracts, there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery points assumed in the derivative transactions or there are issues with regard to the legal enforceability of such instruments.. A decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, financial results, liquidity, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow.. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical conditions. This price volatility also affects the cash flow we will have available for capital expenditures as well as our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas;. •  the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas;. •  commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, and the availability of refining capacity;. •  the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas;. •  the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. •  domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. •  the supply of other inputs necessary to our production;. •  the price and availability of alternative fuel sources;. •  weather conditions;. •  financial and commercial market uncertainty;. •  political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East and South America; and. •  worldwide economic conditions.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and gas price movements with any certainty. From mid-2014 through 2016, oil and natural gas prices declined significantly, due in large part to increasing supplies and weakening demand growth.  Although oil prices have increased, they remain below the prices that existed immediately before the market adjustment in 2014.. Extended periods of lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce our revenue but also will reduce the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce economically, and as a result, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and reserves. During periods of low commodity prices we shut in or curtail production from additional wells and defer drilling new wells, challenging our ability to produce at commercially paying quantities required to hold our leases.  A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in our expected cash flows and require us to reduce our capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to replace our production and our future rate of growth.. A decline in prices from current levels may lead to additional write downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties in the future which could negatively impact results of operations.. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our oil and natural gas properties. Under this method, all costs incurred for both productive and nonproductive properties are capitalized and amortized on an aggregate basis using the units-of-production method. However, these capitalized costs are subject to a ceiling test that limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves discounted at 10% net of tax considerations, plus the market value of unproved properties not being amortized. The full cost ceiling is evaluated at the end of each quarter using the SEC prices for oil and natural gas in effect at that date. A write-down of oil and natural gas properties does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date. We recorded ceiling test write-downs of $42 million, $281 million and $1.5 billion in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Crude oil prices have staged a moderate recovery from previous historic lows in early 2016. However, oil and natural gas prices are volatile and this and other factors, without mitigating circumstances, could require us to further write down. 32. capitalized costs and incur corresponding noncash charges to earnings. Since the prices used in the cost ceiling are based on a trailing twelve-month period, the full impact of a sudden price decline is not recognized immediately.. A significant portion of total proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, are undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 33% of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. These reserve estimates reflect our plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert our proved undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves at a total estimated undiscounted cost of $282 million. You should be aware that actual development costs may exceed estimates, development may not occur as scheduled and results may not be as estimated. If we choose not to develop our proved undeveloped reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop them, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves.. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated.. Estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves is a complex process. The quantities and values of our proved reserves in the projections are only estimates and subject to numerous uncertainties. The accuracy of any reserves estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation. These estimates depend on assumptions regarding quantities and production rates of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves, future prices for oil and natural gas, timing and amounts of development expenditures and operating expenses, all of which will vary from those assumed in our estimates. If the variances in these assumptions are significant, many of which are based upon extrinsic events we cannot control, they could significantly affect these estimates. Any significant variance from the assumptions used could result in the actual amounts of oil and natural gas ultimately recovered and future net cash flows being materially different from the estimates in our reserves reports. In addition, results of drilling, testing, production, and changes in prices after the date of the estimates of our reserves may result in substantial downward revisions. These estimates may not accurately predict the present value of future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this report represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The timing of production and expenses associated with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In accordance with requirements of the SEC, the estimates of present values are based on a twelve-month average price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the twelve-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of these estimates. Our December 31, 2017, reserve report used SEC pricing of $2.98 per Mcf for natural gas and $51.34 per Bbl for oil.. Restrictive covenants in our New Credit Facility could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.. Our New Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  make investments or loans;. •  create liens;. •  consummate mergers and similar fundamental changes;. •  make restricted payments;. •  make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries; and. •  enter into transactions with affiliates.. The restrictions contained in the New Credit Facility could:. •  limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, to meet capital needs or otherwise to restrict our activities or business plan; and. •  adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. Our New Credit Facility includes provisions that require mandatory prepayment of outstanding borrowings and/or a borrowing base redetermination when we make asset dispositions over a certain threshold, which could limit our ability to generate liquidity from. 33. asset sales. Also, our New Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a continued downturn in our business or a downturn in the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Our potential inability to meet financial covenants could require us to refinance or amend such obligations resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us.. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our New Credit Facility. A default under our New Credit Facility, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding thereunder, which in turn would trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default rights under our other debt.. Future legislative changes may increase the gross production tax charged on our oil and natural gas production.. Due to significant budget shortfalls in Oklahoma in recent years, legislation has been introduced which, if enacted, would increase the Gross Production Tax (\"GPT\") applicable to the oil and natural gas we produce.  Generally, Oklahoma imposes a 7% tax on the gross value of oil and gas produced and sold in Oklahoma.  However, production is taxed at a 2% rate for the first 36 months of production from a new well.  Legislation has been introduced which would reduce or eliminate the new well GPT incentive, and increase the rate to as much as 7%.  In addition, a ballot initiative has been proposed which would increase GPT by 5%, and may be on the state general election ballot in November 2018.  The passage of such legislation or ballot initiatives would increase the tax burden on all of our oil and gas production, negatively affecting our net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions in the Stockholders Agreement may delay or prevent certain transactions that would be beneficial to our stockholders and our business, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.. The Stockholders Agreement contains certain provisions requiring the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders, thereby restricting the ability of our Board to effect certain transactions or other advantageous actions.  Such provisions requiring the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstand common stock could make it more difficult or impossible for us to enter into transactions or agreements that are important to our business, even if the transaction or agreement would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. •  a merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;. •  an acquisition outside the ordinary course of business or exceeding $125,000,000;. •  an amendment, waiver or modification of the charter documents of the Company;. •  an incurrence of new indebtedness that would result in the aggregate indebtedness of the Company exceeding $650,000,000; and. •  with certain exceptions, an initial public offering on or prior to December 15, 2018.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do.. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas production, acquisition, development, and exploration and face intense competition from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies:. •  seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future development or exploration; and. •  seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop our properties.. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, select suitable prospects and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment.. Energy conservation measures or initiatives that stimulate demand for alternative forms of energy could reduce the demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce.. Fuel conservation measures, climate change initiatives, governmental requirements for renewable energy resources, increasing consumer demand for alternative forms of energy, and technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce. The potential impact of changing demand for crude oil and natural gas services and products could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. 34. Drilling wells is speculative and capital intensive.. Developing and exploring properties for oil and natural gas requires significant capital expenditures and involves a high degree of financial risk, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing, and operating wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional bank debt or other methods of financing on commercially reasonable terms to meet these requirements. If revenue were to decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including title problems, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages, and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling or completion of an oil or natural gas well does not ensure a profit on investment. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells.. If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production.. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop, or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves and production will decline over time. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our December 31, 2017, reserve estimates reflect that our production rate on current proved developed reserve properties will decline at annual rates of approximately 22%, 15%, and 12% for the next three years. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically discovering or acquiring additional recoverable reserves.. Development and exploration drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be encountered. We cannot assure you that new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be economically recovered and/or produced. Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then-realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. These risks are magnified when operating in an environment of low crude oil prices. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including:. •  unexpected drilling conditions;. •  title problems;. •  surface access restrictions;. •  pressure or lost circulation in formations;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  decline in commodity prices;. •  limited availability of financing on acceptable terms;. •  political events, public protests, civil disturbances, terrorist acts or cyber-attacks;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and. •  increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services.. If, for any reason, we are unable to economically recover reserves through our exploration and drilling activities, our results of operations, cash flows, growth, and reserve replenishment may be materially affected.. Oil and natural gas drilling and production operations can be hazardous and may expose us to uninsurable losses or other liabilities.. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other. 35. pollutants and other environmental and safety hazards and risks. Our drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and from mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipes, collapsed casings and separated cables. If any of these events occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of:. •  injury or loss of life;. •  severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. •  pollution or other environmental damage;. •  remediation and cleanup responsibilities;. •  regulatory investigations and administrative, civil and criminal penalties; and. •  injunctions or other proceedings that suspend, limit or prohibit operations.. Our liability for environmental hazards sometimes includes those created on properties prior to the date we acquired or leased them. While we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above, our insurance may not be adequate to cover any or all resulting losses or liabilities. Moreover, if we experience more insurable events, our annual premiums may increase further or we may not be able to obtain any such insurance on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of, or failure by us to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage for, any of the events listed above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our growth, exploration, and employee recruitment activities.. We may not have sufficient funds to repay bank borrowings if required as a result of a borrowing base redetermination.. Availability under our New Credit Facility is subject to a borrowing base, initially set at $285.0 million as of December 2017, and which is redetermined by the banks semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing in May 1, 2018. In addition, the banks may request a borrowing base redetermination once between each scheduled redetermination. Dispositions of our oil and natural gas assets, early terminations of our derivative contracts, or incurrence of permitted senior additional debt may also trigger automatic reductions in our borrowing base.  If the outstanding borrowings under our New Credit Facility were to exceed the borrowing base as a result of a redetermination, we would be required to eliminate this deficiency. Within 10 days after receiving notice of the new borrowing base, we would be required to make an election: (1) to repay the deficiency in a lump sum within 45 days or (2) commencing within 30 days to repay the deficiency in equal monthly installments over a six -month period or (3) to submit within 45 days additional oil and gas properties we own for consideration in connection with the determination of the borrowing base sufficient to eliminate the deficiency or (4) any combination of repayment as provided in the preceding three elections. If we are forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Asset sales may also reduce available collateral and availability under the New Credit Facility and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, we cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations.. Resolution of litigation could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. We have been named as a defendant in certain lawsuits. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In some of these suits, our liability for potential loss upon resolution may be mitigated by insurance coverage. To the extent that potential exposure to liability is not covered by insurance or insurance coverage is inadequate, we could incur losses that could be material to our financial position or results of operations in future periods. We may also become involved in litigation over certain issues related to the Reorganization Plan, including the proposed treatment of certain claims thereunder. The outcome of such litigation could have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations in future periods.. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties.. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on our partially owned properties operated by others therefore will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's:. •  timing and amount of capital expenditures;. •  expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements;. •  financial resources;. 36. •  inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and. •  use of technology.. As a result of any of the above or an operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interest, our allocated production revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.. If the third parties we rely on for gathering and distributing our oil and natural gas are unable to meet our needs for such services and facilities, our future exploration and production activities could be adversely affected.. The marketability of our production depends upon the proximity of our reserves to, and the capacity of, third-party facilities and third-party services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and refineries or processing facilities. The lack of available capacity on such third-party systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production. Further, such third parties are subject to federal and state regulation of the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. If such third parties are unable to comply with such regulations and we are unable to replace such service and facilities providers, we may be required to shut-in producing wells or delay or discontinue development plans for our properties. A shut-in, delay or discontinuance could adversely affect our financial conditions.. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our operations require significant amounts of water for drilling and hydraulic fracturing. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to obtain water from local sources may require us to find remote sources. In addition, treatment and disposal of such water after use is becoming more highly regulated and restricted. Thus, costs for obtaining and disposing of water could increase significantly, potentially limiting our ability to engage in hydraulic fracturing. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental and safety regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner, and feasibility of doing business.. Our exploration, production, and marketing operations are subject to complex and stringent federal, tribal, state, and local laws and regulations governing, among other things: land use restrictions, drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, reporting and other requirements with respect to emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants, utilization and pooling of properties, habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation, well stimulation processes, produced water disposal, safety precautions, operational reporting, and tax requirements. These laws, regulations and related public policy considerations affect the costs, manner, and feasibility of our operations and require us to make significant expenditures in order to comply. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions that could limit or prohibit our operations. In addition, some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability for contamination resulting from spills, discharges, and releases of substances on, under or from our properties and facilities, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Under such laws and regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed substances and property contamination, including wastes disposed or released by prior owners or operators. Changes in, or additions to, environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes or additions that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, cleanup or other environmental protection requirements could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. Future legislation may result in the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. Additionally, future federal and state legislation may impose new or increased taxes or fees on oil and natural gas extraction.. In recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax benefits and deductions currently available to oil and gas companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the increase of the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses, (iii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; and (iv) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities. Moreover, other generally applicable features of the 2017 Tax Cut Act, such as changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the carryback, carryforward and limitation on the use of post 2017 net operating losses and the cost recovery rules could impact our income taxes and resulting operating cash flow.  Additionally, legislation could be enacted that imposes new fees or increases the taxes on oil and natural gas extraction, which could result in increased operating costs and/or reduced consumer demand for petroleum products and thereby affect the prices we receive for our commodity products.. 37. Potential legislative and regulatory actions could negatively affect our business.. In addition to the Safe Drinking Water Act and other potential regulations on hydraulic fracturing practices, numerous other legislative and regulatory proposals affecting the oil and gas industry have been introduced, are anticipated to be introduced, or are otherwise under consideration, by Congress, state legislatures and various federal and state agencies. Among these proposals are: (1) climate change/carbon tax legislation introduced in Congress, and EPA regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and (2) legislation introduced in Congress to impose new taxes on, or repeal various tax deductions available to, oil and gas producers, such as the current tax deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, which deductions, if eliminated, could raise the cost of energy production, reduce energy investment and affect the economics of oil and gas exploration and production activities. Any of the foregoing described proposals could affect our operations, and the costs thereof. The trend toward stricter standards, increased oversight and regulation and more extensive permit requirements, along with any future laws and regulations, could result in increased costs or additional operating restrictions which could have an effect on demand for oil and natural gas or prices at which it can be sold. However, until such legislation or regulations are enacted or adopted into law and thereafter implemented, it is not possible to gauge their impact on our future operations or their results of operations and financial condition.. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and waste water injector wells could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Our hydraulic fracturing operations are a significant component of our business, and it is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly oil and natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, although no rule was ever finalized, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Beginning in August 2012, the EPA issued a series of rules under the CAA that establish new emission control requirements for emissions of volatile organic compounds and methane from certain oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations and equipment. And in March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management finalized a rule governing hydraulic fracturing and venting and flaring on federal lands. Several of the EPA's and the BLM's recently promulgated rules concerning regulation of hydraulic fracturing are in various stages of suspension, implementation delay, and court challenges and, thus, the future of these rules is uncertain. Further, legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of \"underground injection\" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several states and local jurisdictions in which we operate also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells (and to a lesser extent, hydraulic fracturing) has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas. In response, some states, including states in which we operate, have imposed additional requirements on the construction and operation of underground disposal wells.  For example, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission's Oil and Gas Conservation Division and the Oklahoma Geologic Survey recently released well completion seismicity guidance, discussed in more detail below, which requires operators to take certain prescriptive actions, including mitigation, following anomalous seismic activity within 1.25 miles of hydraulic fracturing operations.. These developments, as well as increased scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing and underground injection activities by state and municipal authorities may result in additional levels of regulation or complexity with respect to existing regulations that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our cost of compliance and doing business.. Studies by both state and federal agencies demonstrating a correlation between earthquakes and oil and natural gas activities could result in increased regulatory and operational burdens.. In recent years, Oklahoma has experienced a significant increase in earthquakes and other seismic activity. On April 21, 2015, the Oklahoma Geologic Survey (\"OGS\") issued a document entitled \"Statement of Oklahoma Seismicity,\" in which the agency states \"[t]he OGS considers it very likely that the majority of recent earthquakes, particularly those in central and north-central Oklahoma, are triggered by the injection of produced water in disposal wells.\" The Oklahoma Corporation Commission (\"OCC\") has issued directives restricting injection of high volumes of water into the Arbuckle formation and into the crystalline basement below within a specified area of interest (\"AOI\") in Central and Western Oklahoma.  The AOI now includes more than 10,000 square miles and more than 600 Arbuckle disposal wells, resulting in a reduction of more than 800,000 barrels per day from the 2015 average injection volumes.  The OCC has adopted a \"traffic light\" system for disposal operators to review disposal well permits for proximity to faults. 38. seismicity in the area and other factors, and adopted rules requiring well pressure recording and reporting, and mechanical integrity tests on certain wells. In addition, the OCC has issued directives aimed at limiting the future growth of disposal rates into the Arbuckle by capping disposal volumes in the AOI, even those not operating under currently permitted volumes, to the thirty day disposal average. We operate 16 wells in the AOI and are fully compliant with all regulations relating to the disposal of produced water, and at this time our operations have not been affected.. In February 2018, the Commission introduced new guidelines related to seismicity, requiring operators in the defined area to have access to a seismic array which will provide real-time seismicity readings, and to develop plans to address seismic activity. The guidelines reduce the earthquake magnitude at which action is required from 2.5 to 2.0 within a 3.1 mile radius of hydraulic fracturing operations, and changes the level at which operators are required to pause hydraulic fracturing operations from 3.0 to 2.5.. We cannot predict whether future regulatory actions will result in further expansion of AOI or new or additional regulations by the OCC or other agencies with jurisdiction over our operations.  Any such new or expanded regulation could result in increased operating costs, cause operational delays, and result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to inject produced water into disposal wells.  Increased complexity and reporting requirements arising from expanded regulations may increase our costs of compliance and doing business.  In addition, even though we have conducted our operations in compliance with applicable laws, the increase in media and regulatory attention to the possible connection between seismic activity and produced water injection has led to litigation filed against us and other oil and gas producers requesting compensation for damages, including demands for damages caused by earthquakes and earthquake insurance premiums on a going forward basis.  We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation or provide assurances that other similar claims will not be filed against us in the future.. We are responsible for the decommissioning, abandonment, and reclamation costs for our facilities.. We are responsible for compliance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation of our facilities at the end of their economic life, the costs of which may be substantial. Although we make estimates of such costs and record the associated liability on our balance sheet, there is no assurance that our cost estimates will coincide with actual costs when the remediation work takes place. The timing and amount of costs is difficult to predict with certainty since they will be a function of regulatory requirements at the time of decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation. We may, in the future, determine it prudent or be required by applicable laws or regulations to establish and fund one or more decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation reserve funds to provide for payment of future decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation costs, which could decrease funds available to service debt obligations. In addition, such reserves, if established, may not be sufficient to satisfy such future decommissioning, abandonment and reclamation costs and we will be responsible for the payment of the balance of such costs.. Costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates and adversely affect our operating results.. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, which obligate us to install and maintain pollution controls and to clean up various sites at which regulated materials may have been disposed of or released. It is not possible for us to estimate reliably the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of:. •  the uncertainties in estimating cleanup costs;. •  the discovery of additional contamination or contamination more widespread than previously thought;. •  the uncertainty in quantifying liability under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties;. •  changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations; and. •  future changes to environmental laws and regulations and their enforcement.. Although we believe we have established appropriate reserves for known liabilities, including cleanup costs, we could be required to set aside additional reserves in the future due to these uncertainties, incur material cleanup costs, other liabilities, and/or expend significant sums to defend ourselves against litigation related to legacy environmental issues, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. Our use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses or reduce our income.. To reduce our exposure to the volatility in the price of oil and gas and provide stability to cash flows, we enter into derivative positions. Our commodity hedges are currently comprised of fixed price swaps and collars with financial institutions. The volumes and average notional prices of these hedges are disclosed in in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report.. 39. Derivative instruments expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. •  our production is less than expected;. •  the counterparty to the derivative instruments defaults on its contractual obligations; or. •  there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the derivative instruments.. Derivatives also expose us to risk of income reduction as derivative instruments may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Additionally, none of our derivatives are classified as hedges for accounting purposes and therefore must be adjusted to fair value through income each reporting period.. While the primary purpose of our derivative transactions is to protect ourselves against the volatility in oil and natural gas prices, under certain circumstances, or if hedges are discontinued, or terminated for any reason, we may incur substantial losses in closing out our positions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks.. Our future success depends on our ability to access capital markets and obtain financing on reasonable terms. Our ability to access financial markets and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms in the future is dependent on a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including changes in:. •  our credit ratings;. •  interest rates;. •  the structured and commercial financial markets;. •  market perceptions of us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry; and. •  tax burden due to new tax laws.. Assuming a constant debt level of $285.0 million, equal to our borrowing base as of March 23, 2018 under our New Credit Facility, the cash flow impact for a 12-month period resulting from a 100 basis point movement in interest rates, regardless of whether the spread widens or tightens, would be $2.9 million. As a result, any increases in our interest rates, or our inability to access the equity markets on reasonable terms, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of our receivables.. We are exposed to risk of financial loss in connection with our receivables from joint interest owners and oil and natural gas purchasers which are generally uncollateralized. We generally review our oil and natural gas purchasers for credit worthiness and general financial condition. However, there is a possibility that some of our purchasers may experience credit downgrades or liquidity problems and may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us. Nonperformance by an oil or natural gas purchaser could result in financial losses.. Unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could negatively impact our financial condition.. Our business depends, in part, on normal weather patterns across the United States. Natural gas demand and prices are particularly susceptible to seasonal weather trends. Warmer than usual winters can result in reduced demand and high season-end storage volumes, which can depress prices to unacceptably low levels. In addition, because a majority of our properties are located in Oklahoma and Texas, our operations are constantly at risk of extreme adverse weather conditions such as freezing rain, tornadoes, draught, and hurricanes. Any unusual or prolonged adverse weather patterns in our areas of operations or markets, whether due to climate change or otherwise, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, our business, financial condition and cash flow could be adversely affected if the businesses of our key vendors, purchasers, contractors, suppliers or transportation service providers were disrupted due to severe weather, such as freezing rain, hurricanes or floods, whether due to climate change or otherwise.. Changes in, or challenges to, our rates and other terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The rates charged by certain of our pipeline systems are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (\" FERC\"), state regulatory agencies, or both.  These regulatory agencies also regulate other terms and conditions of the services these pipeline systems provide, including the types of services we may offer.  If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to. 40. challenges by third parties, were to lower our tariff rates or deny any rate increase or other material changes to the types, or terms and conditions, of service we might propose, the profitability of our pipeline businesses would suffer.  If we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which if delayed could further reduce our cash flow.  Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so.  The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction.  New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our assets, or a change in policy, could result in increased regulation of our assets which could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain of our pipeline assets are natural gas gathering facilities.  Unlike interstate natural gas transportation facilities, natural gas gathering facilities are exempt from the jurisdiction of FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (\"NGA\").  Although FERC has not made a formal determination with respect to all of our facilities we believe to be gathering facilities, we believe that these pipelines meet the traditional tests that FERC has used to determine that a pipeline is a gathering pipeline and is therefore not subject to FERC jurisdiction.  The distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services, however, has been the subject of substantial litigation, and FERC determines whether facilities are gathering facilities on a case-by-case basis, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities is subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress.  If FERC were to consider the status of an individual facility and determine that the facility and/or services provided by it are not exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA and that the facility provides interstate service, the rates for, and terms and conditions of, services provided by such facility would be subject to regulation by FERC under the NGA or the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (\"NGPA\").  Such regulation could decrease revenue, increase operating costs, and, depending upon the facility in question, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, if any of our facilities were found to have provided services or otherwise operated in violation of the NGA or NGPA, this could result in the imposition of civil penalties, as well as a requirement to disgorge charges collected for such services in excess of the rate established by FERC.. Increased regulatory requirements regarding pipeline safety and integrity management may require us to incur significant capital and operating expenses to comply.. The ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline safety and integrity management regulations are difficult to predict. The majority of the compliance costs are for pipeline safety and integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. We plan to continue our efforts to assess and maintain the safety and integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the DOT and PHMSA rules. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. In addition, new laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future, or a revised interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could significantly increase the amount of these costs. We cannot be assured about the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs, or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on us and our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market including swap clearing and trade execution requirements. New or modified rules, regulations or requirements may increase the cost and availability to the counterparties of our hedging and swap positions which they can make available to us, as applicable, and may further require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivative activities to separate entities which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. Any changes in the regulations of swaps may result in certain market participants deciding to curtail or cease their derivative activities.. While many rules and regulations have been promulgated and are already in effect, other rules and regulations remain to be finalized or effectuated, and therefore, the impact of those rules and regulations on us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act, and the rules promulgated thereunder, could (i) significantly increase the cost, or decrease the liquidity, of energy-related derivatives that we use to hedge against commodity price fluctuations (including through requirements to post collateral), (ii) materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, (iii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and (iv) increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties.. 41. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations.. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages in such personnel.  The severe industry decline that began in mid-2014 resulted in a large displacement of experienced personnel through layoffs and many of the affected personnel moved on to careers in other industries. This structural shift in available workforce may be impactful in future periods. The moderate price recovery that began in late 2016 has resulted in an increase in the number of active drilling rigs and stimulated demand for crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services, and personnel. As such we may encounter shortages of these resources as well as increased prices. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill those wells and conduct those operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections.. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial loss.. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day-to-day operations, including certain of their exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information and in many other activities related to their business. Our technologies, systems and networks may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the disruption of our business operations. For example, unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our drilling or production operations. To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, however there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance their protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cyber vulnerabilities.. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for natural gas.. The EPA has determined that GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because such gases contribute to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted and implemented, and continues to adopt and implement, regulations that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (\"CAA\"). The EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain large sources of GHG emissions in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities and oil and natural gas gathering and boosting operations. The EPA has also taken steps to limit methane emissions from oil and gas production facilities. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. And in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. However, President Trump has since announced that the United States will withdraw from the Agreement; notably, the earliest date of withdrawal under the terms of the Agreement is November 4, 2020. Restrictions on emissions of GHGs that may be imposed could adversely affect the natural gas industry by reducing demand for hydrocarbons and by making it more expensive to develop and produce hydrocarbons, either of which could have a material adverse effect on future demand for our services. Moreover, climate change may cause more extreme weather conditions and increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our operations and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. For a more detailed discussion of climate change, please see Environmental Matters and Regulation  -  Climate Change.. We may face risks associated with the increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities.. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing in recent years. Companies in the oil and gas industry are often the target of activist efforts regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. Future activist efforts could result in the following:. •  delay or denial of drilling permits;. •  shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;. •  restrictions on installation or operation of production, gathering or processing facilities;. 42. •  restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposal of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water;. •  increased severance and/or other taxes;. •  cyber-attacks;. •  legal challenges or lawsuits;. •  negative publicity about our business or the industry in general;. •  increased costs of doing business; and. •  reduction in demand for our products.. We may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives. Complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. Although we take the steps customary in the oil and natural gas industry to review title and perform any curative work with respect to any title defects, the existence of a material title deficiency could render a lease worthless and have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects."
