[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating your investment in us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows could be harmed materially. Additional risks, uncertainties, and other factors that are not currently known to us or that we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. In any of these cases, you may lose all or part of your investment in us.. Risks Related to Our Business. The markets we serve are subject to cyclical demand and vulnerable to economic downturn, which could harm our business and make it difficult to project long-term performance.. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end-users, in particular those customers in the global hydrocarbon and industrial gas markets. These customers' expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Decreased capital and maintenance spending by these customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, this historically cyclical demand limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about the performance of our company. Even if demand improves, it is difficult to predict whether any improvement represents a long-term improving trend or the extent or timing of improvement. There can be no assurance that historically improving cycles are representative of actual future demand.. The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our largest customers could reduce our sales and profitability.. A small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our historical net sales. For example, sales to our top ten customers accounted for 35%, 38%, and 36% of consolidated sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with sales to one customer of approximately 11.5% of consolidated sales in 2016. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. While our sales to particular customers fluctuate from period to period, the global producers and distributors of hydrocarbon and industrial gases and their suppliers tend to be a consistently large source of our sales.. The loss of any of our major customers, consolidation of our customers, or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could materially reduce our sales and profitability. Although order activity in 2017 increased year over year, we continued to experience energy price volatility and our customers' adjusted project timing. Delays in the anticipated timing of LNG infrastructure build out could materially reduce the demand for our products. Our largest customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. For example, two of our largest customers, Airgas and Air Liquide, combined during 2016. Further industry consolidation could further exacerbate our customer concentration risk.. If we are unable to successfully control our costs and efficiently manage our operations, it may place a significant strain on our management and administrative resources and lead to increased costs and reduced profitability.. We have implemented cost savings initiatives to align our business with current and expected economic conditions. Our ability to operate our business successfully and implement our strategies depends, in part, on our ability to allocate our resources optimally in each of our facilities in order to maintain efficient operations. Ineffective management could cause manufacturing inefficiencies, increase our operating costs, place significant strain on our management and administrative resources, and prevent us from being able to take advantage of opportunities as economic conditions improve. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to prevailing economic conditions on a timely basis, or if implementation or failure to implement any cost structure adjustments has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be negatively affected.. Similarly, it is critical that we appropriately manage our planned capital expenditures in this challenging economic environment. For example, we have invested or plan to invest approximately $35 to $45 million in new capital expenditures in 2018. If we fail to manage the projects related to these capital expenditures in an effective manner, we may lose the opportunity to obtain some new customer orders or the ability to operate our businesses efficiently. Even if we effectively implement these projects, the orders needed to support the capital expenditure may not be obtained, may be delayed, or may be less than expected, which may result in sales or profitability at lower levels than anticipated. For example, while we invested in the expansion of our D&S segment in China in recent years, we have experienced significant delays in some of the related orders anticipated to support that expansion, which has resulted in the underutilization of our capacity in China.. 10. Decreases in energy prices, or a decrease in the cost of oil relative to natural gas, may decrease demand for some of our products and cause downward pressure on the prices we charge, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A significant amount of our sales is to customers in the energy production and supply industry. We estimate that 35% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were generated by end-users in the energy industry, with many of our products sold for natural gas-related applications. Accordingly, demand for a significant portion of our products depends upon the level of capital expenditures by companies in the oil and gas industry, which depends, in part, on energy prices, as well as the price of oil relative to natural gas for some applications. Some applications for our products could see greater demand when prices for natural gas are relatively low compared to oil prices, but a sustained decline in energy prices generally and a resultant downturn in energy production activities could negatively affect the capital expenditures of our customers. For example, the sharp decline in oil prices since the fourth quarter of 2014 has had a negative impact on demand for some of our products. Although prices have recovered somewhat from recent lows, any further deterioration and significant decline in the capital expenditures of our customers, whether due to a decrease in the market price of energy or otherwise, may decrease demand for our products and cause downward pressure on the prices we charge. Accordingly, if there is a continued or further downturn in the energy production and supply industry, including a decline in the cost of oil relative to natural gas, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We carry goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet, which are subject to impairment testing and could subject us to significant non-cash charges to earnings in the future if impairment occurs.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $573.9 million, which represented approximately 33.3% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment may exist. Factors that could indicate that our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, lower than projected operating results and cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. Our stock price historically has shown volatility and often fluctuates significantly in response to market and other factors. Declines in our stock price, lower operating results and any decline in industry conditions in the future could increase the risk of impairment. Impairment testing incorporates our estimates of future operating results and cash flows, estimates of allocations of certain assets and cash flows among reporting segments, estimates of future growth rates, and our judgment regarding the applicable discount rates used on estimated operating results and cash flows. For example, as a result of our impairment analyses, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill and indefinite-live intangible assets of $207.6 million during the fourth quarter of 2015. During 2017 and 2016, there were no further goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges.  If we determine that further impairment exists, it may result in a significant non-cash charge to earnings and lower stockholders' equity.. Our backlog is subject to modification, termination or reduction of orders, which could negatively impact our sales.. Our backlog is comprised of the portion of firm signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments received from customers that we have not recognized as sales. The dollar amount of backlog as of December 31, 2017 was $461.3 million. Our backlog can be significantly affected by the timing of orders for large projects, particularly in our E&C segment, and the amount of our backlog at December 31, 2017 is not necessarily indicative of future backlog levels or the rate at which backlog will be recognized as sales. Although modifications and terminations of our orders may be partially offset by cancellation fees, customers can, and sometimes do, terminate or modify these orders. We cannot predict whether cancellations will accelerate or diminish in the future. Cancellations of purchase orders, indications that the customers will not perform or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales. For example, during 2015, D&S segment backlog was reduced by approximately $150.0 million when circumstances suggested that our customers were not likely to take delivery in the future. Our failure to replace canceled orders could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Included in the E&C backlog is approximately $40 million related to the previously announced Magnolia LNG order where production release is delayed into early 2019.  We did not have any significant cancellations in 2017.. We may fail to successfully integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies, including the recent Hudson acquisition.. A component of our business strategy is the acquisition of businesses that complement our existing products and services. Such a strategy involves the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities, and potential profitability of acquisition candidates and in integrating the operations of acquired companies. In addition, any acquisitions of businesses with foreign operations or sales may increase our exposure to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States.. 11. For example, we acquired Hudson on September 30, 2017 for a purchase price of $419.5 million, net of cash acquired (including certain estimated net working capital adjustments and acquisition-related tax benefits acquired).  The benefits that are expected to result from the Hudson acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies from the acquisition.  There can be no assurance that we successfully or cost-effectively integrate Hudson into our business and realize these expected benefits.  The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we may have acquisition discussions with other potential target companies both domestically and internationally. If a large acquisition opportunity arises and we proceed, a substantial portion of our cash and surplus borrowing capacity could be used for the acquisition or we may seek additional debt or equity financing.. Potential acquisition opportunities become available to us from time to time, and we periodically engage in discussions or negotiations relating to potential acquisitions, including acquisitions that may be material in size or scope to our business. Any acquisition may or may not occur and, if an acquisition does occur, such as the recent Hudson acquisition, it may not be successful in enhancing our business for one or more of the following reasons:. • Any business acquired may not be integrated successfully and may not prove profitable;. • The price we pay for any business acquired may overstate the value of that business or otherwise be too high;. • Liabilities we take on through the acquisition may prove to be higher than we expected;. • We may fail to achieve acquisition synergies; or. • The focus on the integration of operations of acquired entities may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses.. Inherent in any future acquisition is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities. The failure to efficiently and effectively achieve such transitions could increase our costs and decrease our profitability.. Governmental energy policies could change or expected changes could fail to materialize which could adversely affect our business or prospects.. Energy policy can develop rapidly in the markets we serve, including the United States, Asia, Australia, Europe, and Latin America. Within the last few years, significant developments have taken place, primarily in international markets that we serve with respect to energy policy and related regulations. We anticipate that energy policy will continue to be an important regulatory priority globally, as well as on a national, state, and local level. As energy policy continues to evolve, the existing rules and incentives that impact the energy-related segments of our business may change. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict whether changes in energy policy might occur in the future and the timing of potential changes and their impact on our business. The elimination or reduction of favorable policies for our energy-related business, or the failure to adopt expected policies that would benefit our business, could negatively impact our sales and profitability.. Our exposure to fixed-price contracts, including exposure to fixed pricing on long-term customer contracts and performance guarantees, could negatively impact our financial results.. A substantial portion of our sales has historically been derived from fixed-price contracts for large system projects which may involve long-term fixed price commitments to customers or guarantees of equipment or process performance and which are sometimes difficult to execute. To the extent that any of our fixed-price contracts are delayed, we fail to satisfy a performance guarantee, our subcontractors fail to perform, contract counterparties successfully assert claims against us, the original cost estimates in these or other contracts prove to be inaccurate or the contracts do not permit us to pass increased costs on to our customers, profitability from a particular contract may decrease or project losses may be incurred, which, in turn, could decrease our sales and overall profitability. The uncertainties associated with our fixed-price contracts make it more difficult to predict our future results and exacerbate the risk that our results will not match expectations, which has happened in the past.. We depend on the availability of certain key suppliers; if we experience difficulty with a supplier, we may have difficulty finding alternative sources of supply.. The cost, quality, and availability of raw materials, certain specialty metals and specialized components used to manufacture our products are critical to our success. The materials and components we use to manufacture our products are sometimes custom made and may be available only from a few suppliers, and the lead times required to obtain these materials and components can often be significant. We rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these materials, including special grades of aluminum used in our brazed aluminum heat exchangers and compressors included in some of our product offerings. While we have not historically encountered problems with availability, this does not mean that we will continue to have timely access to adequate supplies of essential materials and components in the future or that supplies of these materials and components will be. 12. available on satisfactory terms when needed. If our vendors for these materials and components are unable to meet our requirements, fail to make shipments in a timely manner, or ship defective materials or components, we could experience a shortage or delay in supply or fail to meet our contractual requirements, which would adversely affect our results of operations and negatively impact our cash flow and profitability.. Health care reform or other changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement levels and practices could negatively impact our sales and profitability.. Many of our BioMedical segment's customers are reimbursed for products and services by third-party payors, such as government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs in the U.S., and by similar programs and entities in the other countries in which we operate or sell our equipment.. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\"), the agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, has implemented a number of payment rules that reduced Medicare payments for oxygen and oxygen equipment.  There remains a significant amount of uncertainty regarding healthcare reform and the effect of competitive bidding on the durable medical equipment industry. The potential impact of new and changing policies on the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages based on product liability and warranty claims.. Due to the high pressures and low temperatures at which many of our products are used, the inherent risks associated with concentrated industrial and hydrocarbon gases, and the fact that some of our products are relied upon by our customers or end users in their facilities or operations or are manufactured for relatively broad industrial, medical, transportation, or consumer use, we face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use, or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, property damage, or economic loss. We believe that we meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate. We have been subject to claims from time to time, some of which were substantial. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, it includes customary exclusions and conditions, it may not cover certain specialized applications such as aerospace-related applications, and it generally does not cover warranty claims. Additionally, such insurance may become difficult to obtain or be unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions or claims resulting from extraordinary loss events, in excess of or outside our insurance coverage, or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us, could materially decrease our liquidity, impair our financial condition, and adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuations in currency exchange or interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. A significant portion of our revenue and expense is incurred outside of the United States. We must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars using exchange rates during or at the end of each period. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have had, and will continue to have an impact on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. While we monitor and manage our foreign currency exposure with limited use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate these exposures, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may materially impact our financial and operational results.. In addition, we are exposed to changes in interest rates. While our convertible notes have a fixed cash coupon, other instruments, primarily borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility, are exposed to a variable interest rate. The impact of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates to our senior secured revolving credit facility is discussed in the \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" section of this report.. As a global business, we are exposed to economic, political, and other risks in different countries which could materially reduce our sales, profitability or cash flows, or materially increase our liabilities.. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, 47%, 50%, and 51%, respectively, of our sales occurred in international markets. Our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. • exchange controls and currency restrictions;. • changes in a specific country's or region's political, social or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets;. • civil unrest, turmoil or outbreak of disease in any of the countries in which we operate or sell our products;. • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. 13. • potential adverse changes in trade agreements between the United States and foreign countries, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) among the United States, Canada and Mexico;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and international tax laws;. • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically widespread operations;. • differing labor regulations;. • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • different regulatory regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property;. • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions;. • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our foreign subsidiaries;. • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable;. • difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations under non-U.S. law;. • transportation delays or interruptions;. • changes in regulatory requirements; and. • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws.. Our international operations and sales also expose us to different local political and business risks and challenges. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit and legal risks of local customers and distributors, which may not be effective. In addition, because some of our international sales are to suppliers that perform work for foreign governments, we are subject to the political risks associated with foreign government projects. For example, certain foreign governments may require suppliers for a project to obtain products solely from local manufacturers or may prohibit the use of products manufactured in certain countries.. Our operations in markets such as Asia, Australia, Europe, and Latin America, may cause us difficulty due to greater regulatory barriers than in the United States, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems, problems related to entering new markets with different economic, social and political systems and conditions, and significant competition from the primary participants in these markets, some of which may have substantially greater resources than us. In addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including political instability in Eastern Europe, the Middle East or elsewhere, could negatively impact our order levels and sales in a region or our ability to collect receivables from customers or operate or execute projects in a region.. Our international operations and transactions also depend upon favorable trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers and suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the United States or those foreign countries in which we do business or sell products, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance, government subsidies or other trade policies, may adversely affect our ability to sell our products or do business in foreign markets. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business and the foregoing factors may cause a reduction in our sales, profitability or cash flows, or cause an increase in our liabilities.. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services.. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. We are subject to potential insolvency or financial distress of third parties.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties to various arrangements who owe us money or goods and services, or who purchase goods and services from us, will not be able to perform their obligations or continue to place orders due to insolvency or financial distress. If third parties fail to perform their obligations under arrangements with us, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at current or above market prices or on other terms that are less favorable to us or we may have to write. 14. off receivables in the case of customer failures to pay. If this happens, whether as a result of the insolvency or financial distress of a third party or otherwise, we may incur losses, or our results of operations, financial position or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.. Failure to protect our intellectual property and know-how could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage and reduce our sales and profitability, and the cost of protecting our intellectual property may be significant.. We rely on a combination of internal procedures, nondisclosure agreements and intellectual property rights assignment agreements, as well as licenses, patents, trademarks and copyright law to protect our intellectual property and know-how. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For example, we frequently explore and evaluate potential relationships and projects with other parties, which often require that we provide the potential partner with confidential technical information. While confidentiality agreements are typically put in place, there is a risk the potential partner could violate the confidentiality agreement and use our technical information for its own benefit or the benefit of others or compromise the confidentiality. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be sold or manufactured do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, the United States has transitioned from a \"first-to-invent\" to a \"first-to-file\" patent system, which means that between two identical, pending patent applications, the first inventor no longer receives priority on the patent to the invention. As a result, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act may require us to incur significant additional expense and effort to protect our intellectual property. Failure or inability to protect our proprietary information could result in a decrease in our sales or profitability.. We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign trademark and patent registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and patents, as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge them. A failure to obtain registrations in the United States or elsewhere could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and technologies and could impede our business. Further, the protection of our intellectual property may require expensive investment in protracted litigation and the investment of substantial management time and there is no assurance we ultimately would prevail or that a successful outcome would lead to an economic benefit that is greater than the investment in the litigation. The patents in our patent portfolio are scheduled to expire between 2018 and 2037.. In addition, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and know-how without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property that is the same as or similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. We compete in a number of industries (e.g., heat exchangers and cryogenic storage) that are small or specialized, which makes it easier for a competitor to monitor our activities and increases the risk that ideas will be stolen. The unauthorized use of our know-how by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business or increase our expenses as we attempt to enforce our rights.. Some of our products are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other governmental authorities.. Some of our products are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. It can be costly and time consuming to obtain regulatory approvals to market a medical device, such as those sold by our BioMedical segment. Approvals might not be granted for new devices on a timely basis, if at all. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. Our failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval for new products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, we are subject to regulations covering manufacturing practices, product labeling, advertising and adverse-event reporting that apply after we have obtained approval to sell a product. Many of our facilities' procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing oversight, including periodic inspection by governmental authorities. Compliance with production, safety, quality control and quality assurance regulations is costly and time-consuming, and while we seek to be in full compliance, noncompliance could arise from time to time. If we fail to comply, our operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected, including through the imposition of fines, costly remediation or plant shutdowns, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval as a result of noncompliance.. We may be required to make material expenditures in order to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and climate change regulations, or incur additional liabilities under these laws and regulations.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants in the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances and the requirement to obtain and maintain permits. 15. and licenses. These laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs and damages resulting from cleaning up our or our predecessors' facilities and third party disposal sites. Compliance with these laws generally increases the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storing and disposing waste, and could decrease our liquidity and profitability and increase our liabilities. Health and safety and other laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate impose various requirements on us including state licensing requirements that may benefit our customers. If we are found to have violated any of these laws, we may become subject to corrective action orders and fines or penalties, and incur substantial costs, including substantial remediation costs and commercial liability to our customers. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future.. We are currently remediating or developing work plans for remediation of environmental conditions involving certain current or former facilities. For example, the discovery of contamination arising from historical industrial operations at our Clarksville, Arkansas property, which is currently being leased to a third party business, has exposed us, and in the future may continue to expose us, to remediation obligations. We have also been subject to environmental liabilities for other sites where we formerly operated or at locations where we or our predecessors did or are alleged to have operated. To date, our environmental remediation expenditures and costs for otherwise complying with environmental laws and regulations have not been material, but the uncertainties associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination and the fact that such laws or regulations change frequently makes predicting the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on our future operations uncertain. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations or enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject us to more rigorous scrutiny. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant expenditures, as well as other costs and liabilities that could decrease our liquidity and profitability and increase our liabilities.. There is a growing political and scientific belief that emissions of greenhouse gases alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting the global climate. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, stockholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New regulations could result in product standard requirements for our global businesses but because any impact is dependent on the design of the mandate or standard, we are unable to predict its significance at this time. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of theorized climate change on our customers, and therefore on our operations, are speculative and highly uncertain, and would be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost, production, sales and financial performance of our operations.. Our pension plan is currently underfunded and we contribute to a multi-employer plan for collective bargaining U.S. employees, which is also underfunded.. Certain U.S. hourly and salaried employees are covered by our defined benefit pension plan. The plan has been frozen since February 2006. As of December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligation under our pension plan was approximately $57.0 million and the value of the assets of the plan was approximately $48.5 million, resulting in our pension plan being underfunded by approximately $8.5 million.. As part of the Hudson acquisition we acquired a noncontributory defined benefit plan covering certain employees of a Hudson subsidiary. This plan is closed to new participants. As of December 31, 2017, the projected benefit obligation of the plan was $2.8 million and the fair value of plan assets were $1.9 million, resulting in the pension plan being underfunded by approximately $0.9 million.. We are also a participant in a multi-employer plan, which is underfunded. Among other risks associated with multi-employer plans, contributions and unfunded obligations of the multi-employer plan are shared by the plan participants and we may inherit unfunded obligations if other plan participants withdraw from the plan or cease to participate. Additionally, if we elect to stop participating in the multi-employer plan, we may be required to pay amounts related to withdrawal liabilities associated with the underfunded status of the plan. If the performance of the assets in our pension plan or the multi-employer plan does not meet expectations or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required pension contributions for future years could be higher than we expect, which may negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 16. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our operations could be impacted by the effects of severe weather.. Some of our operations, including our operations in New Iberia, Louisiana and Houston, Texas, are located in geographic regions and physical locations that are susceptible to physical damage and longer-term economic disruption from hurricanes or other severe weather. We also could make significant future capital expenditures in hurricane-susceptible or other severe weather locations from time to time. These weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economy in which these facilities operate. In September 2008, for example, our New Iberia, Louisiana facility was forced to close as a result of heavy rainfall, evacuations, strong winds and power outages resulting from Hurricane Gustav. Two weeks after Hurricane Gustav, winds and flooding from Hurricane Ike damaged our New Iberia, Louisiana, Houston, Texas and The Woodlands, Texas operations and offices, and those facilities were also closed for a period of time, and in September 2017, our employees in Beasley, Texas and in the Houston area were impacted by the flooding and damage from Hurricane Harvey. Future hurricanes or other severe weather may cause production or delivery delays as a result of the physical damage to the facilities, the unavailability of employees and temporary workers, the shortage of or delay in receiving certain raw materials or manufacturing supplies and the diminished availability or delay of transportation for customer shipments, any of which may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Additionally, the potential physical impact of theorized climate change could include more frequent and intense storms, which would heighten the risk to our operations in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and other severe weather. Although we maintain insurance subject to certain deductibles, which may cover some of our losses, that insurance may become unavailable or prove to be inadequate.. We are subject to regulations governing the export of our products.. Due to our significant foreign sales, our export activities are subject to regulation, including the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control's regulations. We believe we are in compliance with these regulations and maintain robust programs intended to maintain compliance. However, unintentional lapses in our compliance or uncertainties associated with changing regulatory requirements could result in future violations (or alleged violations) of these regulations. Any violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties and may limit our ability to export our products.. As a provider of products to the U.S. government, we are subject to federal rules, regulations, audits and investigations, the violation or failure of which could adversely affect our business.. We sell certain of our products to the U.S. government; and, therefore, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations governing purchases by the U.S. government. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. For example, a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions.. Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in jurisdictions subject to significant change, and unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our future results.. Our future results of operations could be affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law in the United States, which among other things, lowered the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and moved the country towards a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of tax reform and expect our effective tax rate to decrease. However, there can be no assurances that any expected benefit from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be maintained long-term given political and other uncertainties.. 17. Also, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. These contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by OECD members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes.. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses arising from share based compensation, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in accounting principles. In addition, we are subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.. Risks Related to Our Leverage. Our leverage and future debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, impact the way we operate our business, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations.. We are leveraged and have future debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our leverage. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $562.8 million. In addition, at that date, under our senior secured revolving credit facility, we had $42.9 million of letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding and borrowing capacity of approximately $168.1 million. Through separate facilities, our subsidiaries had $7.2 million in bank guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2017.. Our level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including:. • difficulty in generating sufficient cash flow and reduced availability of cash for our operations and other business activities;. • difficulty in obtaining financing in the future;. • exposure to risk of increased interest rates due to variable rates of interest under our senior secured revolving credit facility;. • vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions;. • increased competitive disadvantage due to our debt service obligations;. • adverse customer reaction to our debt levels;. • inability to comply with covenants in, and potential for default under, our debt instruments; and. • failure to refinance any of our debt.  See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We may be unable to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may be inadequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. We may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we face.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our debt instruments do not fully prohibit us from doing so. Our senior secured revolving credit facility provides commitments of up to $450.0 million, approximately $168.1 million of which would have been available for future borrowings (after giving effect to letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding) as of December 31, 2017. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Debt Instruments and Related Covenants.\" We may also further increase the size of our senior secured revolving credit facility which includes an expansion option permitting us to add up to an aggregate of $225.0 million in additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions, or we could refinance with higher borrowing limits. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. 18. The senior secured revolving credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants which limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.. The senior secured revolving credit facility imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in various circumstances limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • pay dividends based on our leverage ratio and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock;. • redeem or buy back our capital stock based on our leverage ratio;. • make certain investments or certain other restricted payments;. • sell or transfer certain kinds of assets;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and. • effect mergers or consolidations.. The senior secured revolving credit facility also requires us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control.. The restrictions contained in the senior secured revolving credit facility could:. • limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and. • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. If an event of default occurs under our senior secured revolving credit facility, which includes an event of default under the indenture governing our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and an event of default under the indenture governing our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024, the lenders could elect to:. • declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; or. • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings,. either of which could result in an event of default under our convertible notes or prevent us from making payments on the convertible notes when due in 2018 or 2024, as the case may be. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing.. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing the senior secured revolving credit facility, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries' assets.. Our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024 have certain fundamental change and conditional conversion features which, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition.. If a fundamental change occurs under our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 or our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024, the holders of the convertible notes may require us to purchase for cash any or all of the convertible notes. However, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds at the time of the fundamental change to purchase all of the convertible notes delivered for purchase, and we may not be able to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Likewise, if one of the conversion contingencies of our convertible notes is triggered, holders of convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods. For example, as a result of attaining specified market price triggers, the 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 were convertible during several quarters in 2013, although no notes have been converted to date. If one or more holders elects to convert their convertible notes during such future specified periods, we would be required to settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. 19. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge and capped call transactions associated with our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024.. The option counterparties for our convertible note hedging arrangements are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the convertible note hedge and capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. Global economic conditions during the 2008-2009 economic downturn resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the convertible note hedge and capped call transactions with that option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties.. Risks Related to the Trading Market for Our Common Stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility.. Our common stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of many factors, including the general volatility of stock market prices and volumes, changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance, variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, fluctuations in order or backlog levels, fluctuations in energy prices, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. For these reasons, among others, the price of our stock may continue to fluctuate.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and other agreements and in Delaware law may discourage a takeover attempt.. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Therefore, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. In addition, the terms of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024 may require us to purchase these convertible notes for cash in the event of a takeover of our Company. The indentures governing the convertible notes also prohibit us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the convertible notes. These and other provisions applicable to the convertible notes may have the effect of increasing the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us.. The issuance of common stock upon conversion of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024 could cause dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $57.1 million and $258.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due August 2018 and our 1.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due November 2024, respectively. Prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding May 1, 2018 (with respect to the 2.00% convertible notes), and prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding August 15, 2024 (with respect to the 1.00% convertible notes), the convertible notes will be convertible only upon satisfaction of certain conditions. As a result of attaining specified market price triggers, the 2.00% convertible notes were convertible during several quarters in 2013, although no notes have been converted to date. Holders may convert their 2.00% convertible notes at their option at any time after May 1, 2018 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately prior to August 1, 2018, and holders may convert their 1.00% convertible notes at their option at any time after August 15, 2024 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding November 15, 2024. We will settle conversions of 2.00% convertible notes by paying cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes to be converted and paying or delivering, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of the remainder,. 20. if any, of our conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the notes being converted. We currently intend to settle conversions of 1.00% convertible notes through a combination of the payment of cash and issuance of shares, with payments of cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes to be converted and delivering shares of our common stock in respect of the remainder, if any, of our conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the notes being converted. The number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of the existing stockholders.. 21"
