[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We feel that any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future.. We currently operate in mature markets where increases or decreases in market share could be significant.. Our sales and net income are largely dependent on sales from a consistent and well-established customer base.  Organic growth opportunities are minimal; however, we have used and will continue to use strategic acquisitions as a means to build and grow the business.   In this business environment, increases or decreases in market share could have a material effect on our business condition or results of operation.  We face intense competition from a diverse range of competitors, including operating divisions of companies much larger and with far greater resources than we have.  If we are unable to maintain our market share, our business could suffer.. Our business strategy includes the pursuit of strategic acquisitions, which may not be successful if they happen at all.. From time to time, we engage in discussions with potential target companies concerning potential acquisitions.  In executing our acquisition strategy, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates.  In addition, we may face competition from other companies for acquisition candidates, making it more difficult to acquire suitable companies on favorable terms.. Even if we do identify a suitable acquisition target and are able to negotiate and close a transaction, the integration of an acquired business into our operations involves numerous risks, including potential difficulties in integrating an acquired company's product line with ours; the diversion of our resources and management's attention from other business concerns; the potential loss of key employees; limitations imposed by antitrust or merger control laws in the United States or other jurisdictions; risks associated with entering a new geographical or product market; and the day-to-day management of a larger and more diverse combined company.. We may not realize the synergies, operating efficiencies, market position or revenue growth we anticipate from acquisitions, and our failure to effectively manage the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and financial performance.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by uncertain economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers' businesses and levels of business activity.. Global economic and political conditions can affect the businesses of our customers and the markets they serve. A severe or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect, among others, the automotive, housing, construction, pipeline, energy, transportation infrastructure and electronics industries. This may reduce demand for our products or depress pricing of those products, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions or foreign and domestic trade policy could also shift demand to products for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes and our business could be negatively affected.. 9. Table of Contents. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may also adversely affect our financial performance through increased raw material costs or other expenses and by making access to capital more difficult.. The cumulative effect of higher interest rates, energy costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, unsettled financial markets, and other economic factors (including changes in foreign currency exchange rates) could adversely affect our financial condition by increasing our manufacturing costs and other expenses at the same time that our customers may be scaling back demand for our products.  Prices of certain commodity products, including oil and petroleum-based products, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, weather events, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors can increase our cost of products and services sold and/or selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Disruptions in the credit markets may limit our ability to access debt capital for use in acquisitions or other purposes on advantageous terms or at all.  If we are unable to manage our expenses in response to general economic conditions and margin pressures, or if we are unable to obtain capital for strategic acquisitions or other needs, then our results of operations would be negatively affected.. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results.. We obtain raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Many of these raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market and from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. If the prices of raw materials increase, and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, we could experience reduced profit margins.. If our products fail to perform as expected, or if we experience product recalls, we could incur significant and unexpected costs and lose existing and future business.. Our products are complex and could have defects or errors presently unknown to us, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brands or divert our resources from other purposes. Despite testing, new and existing products could contain defects and errors and may in the future contain manufacturing or design defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, changes to our manufacturing processes, product recalls, significant increases in our maintenance costs, or exposure to liability for damages, any of which may result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, require significant management attention, damage our reputation and customer relationships, and adversely affect our business, our operating results and our cash flow.. We are dependent on key personnel.. We depend significantly on our executive officers including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Adam P. Chase, and our Executive Chairman, Peter R. Chase, and on other key employees. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, our acquisition strategy will require that we attract, motivate and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. The inability to satisfy such requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to remain competitive in the future.. If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our international operations.. Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in existing and new international markets by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances. Our ability to successfully execute our strategy in international markets is affected by many of the same operational risks we face in expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, our international expansion may be adversely affected by our ability to identify and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in. 10. Table of Contents. which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations (such as those experienced following the June 23, 2016 \"Brexit\" referendum vote in the United Kingdom) may have an impact on future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.. We may experience difficulties in the redesign and consolidation of our manufacturing facilities which could impact shipments to customers, product quality, and our ability to realize cost savings.. We currently have several ongoing projects to streamline our manufacturing operations, which include the redesign and consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities.  We anticipate a reduction of overhead costs as a result of these projects, to the extent that we can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and business processes in the transition of production among manufacturing facilities. However, uncertainty is inherent within the facility redesign and consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality.. Financial market performance may have a material adverse effect on our pension plan assets and require additional funding requirements.. Significant and sustained declines in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the fair market value of the assets of our pension plans.  While these pension plan assets are considered non-financial assets since they are not carried on our balance sheet, the fair market valuation of these assets could impact our funding requirements, funded status or net periodic pension cost.  Any significant and sustained declines in the fair market value of these pension assets could require us to increase our funding requirements, which would have an impact on our cash flow, and could also lead to additional pension expense.. Failure or compromise of security with respect to an operating or information system or portable electronic device could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or the effectiveness of our internal controls over operations and financial reporting.. We are highly dependent on automated systems to record and process our daily transactions and certain other components of our financial statements.  We could experience a failure of one or more of these systems, or a compromise of our security due to technical system flaws, data input or record keeping errors, or tampering or manipulation of our systems by employees or unauthorized third parties.  Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops and smartphones, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft. We may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, cyber-attacks and electrical/telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable wherever we rely on outside vendors to provide services.  Operating system failures, disruptions, or the compromise of security with respect to operating systems or portable electronic devices could subject us to liability claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations, or adversely affect our business, results from operations, financial condition, cash flow or internal control over financial reporting."
